@document.meta
title: Sparse Observability
description: 
authors: juniorsundar-unikie
categories: [
    terminologies
]
created: 2024-04-15T13:31:35+0400
updated: 2024-05-16T12:30:11+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Definition

  *Standard Observability* - A system is observable if you can determine its
  complete internal state by observing its outputs over a finite time period.
  This means you have enough sensor measurements to figure out exactly what's
  happening within the system.

  *Sparse Observability* - A system is sparse observable if you can /determine
  its internal state even when a limited number of sensors are compromised or
  unavailable/. It implies a degree of resilience – the ability to reconstruct
  the system state even with partial information.

  In terms of a number of sensors $s$ , a system is said to be /$s$-sparse
  observable/ if it remains observable even with the failure or attack of up to
  $s$ sensors.

* Importance

  *Sensor Failure* - In real-world systems, sensors can malfunction or become
  unreliable. Sparse observability guarantees that you can still estimate the
  system's state, crucial for maintaining control and safety.

  *Cybersecurity* - With an increase in cyberattacks on control systems,
  sensors can be compromised and feed false information. Sparse observability
  allows for the detection of such attacks and makes the system more robust to
  them.

  *Cost Reduction* - In some applications, deploying a large number of sensors
  can be expensive. Sparse observability helps determine the minimum number of
  sensors needed for reliable state estimation.

* Mitigation

  *Sensor Placement* - Strategically placing sensors within the system can
  improve sparse observability.

  *State Estimation with Redundant Information* - Combining measurements from
  multiple sensors and using estimation algorithms helps reconstruct the system
  state even with missing information.

  *Attack Detection and Isolation* - Algorithms can be designed to detect if
  sensors have been compromised and isolate them, keeping the system safe.

   ===
___

{:$/vault/terminologies:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index]

