@document.meta
title: Chapter 441 - In the Same Frequency
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-04-29T22:01:37+0400
updated: 2024-07-07T21:50:42+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kano's second session with his so-called instructor was a lot more impersonal
compared to their first. For one, he had to arrange his own transport. Not that
it was even necessary, because he'd found out the hard way that the two houses
were just two kilometres apart.

Truth be told, Kano was feeling a little bit salty about the way Elder Bruin
dismissed him the last time. It literally came out of nowhere, and he was
ultimately tossed into an unknown atmosphere, all by himself (an event that was
turning into somewhat of a trend with him). He even brought it up in front of
Kam and Darvia, but the two dwarves looked at him as if the older dwarf's
behaviour was natural.

Apparently, dwarves aren't one to stretch conversations and get-togethers
beyond the necessary amount of time. They, as a people, generally valued the
words they spoke, and small talk was basically an act of insult. After further
digging, Kano managed to understand the Elder's logic.

For one, Kano would eventually meet the Elder the next day. Second, he wasn't
in any danger since the locale was safe, and since he'd shown Kano the way
forward, the way back would be intuitive. And third, the day's session was
more-or-less finished. 

While the logic made total sense, Kano couldn't help but feel offended for some
reason.

Nonetheless, he was still a child, and by nature, he was adaptive and incapable
of holding a grudge. If this was the local culture, what point was there in
challenging it - not like it was going to change anything?

"A fundamental aspect of learning dwarven script is music," Elder Bolin
explained with a cold, and objective tone. "What do you know of music?"

Kano shook his head, his expression blank and apologetic at the same time.

"I guess we will have to start from the very beginning, then," Elder Bolin
commented with a tired sigh.

"Dwarven script is a core element of our culture, and thus by extension, so is
music," Elder Bolin began. "Music is in everything," he declared grandly. "It
is present in our breath, in the pumping of our hearts, in the way the ground
vibrates, or even in the way we speak. Everything has a rhythm, a melody, a
beat... All you have to do is listen carefully, and apply a little bit of
perspective."

"You would think that it is through our script and visual marvels that we
dwarves propagate our history," he added with an amused smile. "In truth,
though, it is through our music. What you see when you observe and decipher our
scripts is the music that went into making it."

"But how?" Kano asked in awe.

"Leave all questions to the end!" Elder Bolin growled. He then scratched his
head to retrace his steps and continued, but not before glaring at Kano.

"It's well-established that embedding something within the cocoon of music
enhances memorization. Consider recalling a list of items: you could attempt to
memorize it through repetition, but typically, within a matter of days, your
memory may falter in eight out of ten cases. However, if you envelop it within
a pleasing melody and rhythm, you'll find yourself able to recall it
effortlessly, whenever prompted, as long as your mind can summon the
accompanying tune," he leaned in, emphasizing his next words, "Such is the
potency of music!"

"Inevitably, one would surmise the most glaring flaw in such a method of
preserving a civilization's history," Elder Bolin mused.

Kano pondered for a moment, his brow furrowing in contemplation. "If there's no
one to hear the music, then it fades into history," he replied, his tone
reflective, only to be met with a stern glare from the elder dwarf. With a low,
rumbling growl, Bolin rebuked the young dwarf, "That question was rhetorical."

"Nevertheless, your observation holds weight," the older dwarf then conceded.
"Music requires a target audience, just like any artwork. And unfortunately, it
isn't the kind of art that can stand independent of the artist. Not unless
there is a way for the artist to separate themselves from their work, in such a
way that they are no longer necessary for the music to exist."

The man noticed Kano's face growing increasingly confused and retraced his
steps, "What I mean to say, is that there needs to be a method for someone to
be able to play a piece of music without having it taught to them personally by
the music's creator."

"The pursuit of this goal led the early dwarves to develop the first iteration
of the dwarven script. Though at that time, it wasn't called that. It was just
referred to as Music Script." Elder Bolin reached for a large stone tablet by
his side and placed it on his lap. On it, Kano noticed methodically etched
scratches that were quite similar to, but not exactly like, the scripts etched
into the weapons around him. For one, Kano couldn't experience any visions in
observing these scratches.

"Don't bother with this," the man said while returning the tablet to his side.
"This isn't part of our curriculum."

"This was more of a kickoff point. After extensive research that spanned many
years, primarily through a lot of trial and error, the first iteration was
devised which was universal in its approach to codify music in a visual form,"
Elder Bolin continued. "And this was the standard for many millennia after.
However, this wasn't the end - development did not wholly stagnate."

"A breakthrough was achieved by a dwarf, whose name was ironically lost to the
times. Not much is remembered of them. We don't know if they were a man or
woman. We don't know how old they were. All we know is that they were the one
that pioneered what we now call modern Dwarven Script. It was built on Music
Script, with a single rule. Just as music is meant for the listener, the script
must adhere to the observer's perspective."

"The script was designed to be intuitive, such that any dwarf would be able to
read it. In order to achieve this, the creator researched the extent of dwarven
familiarity - as in, how easily could dwarves identify features and marks and
intuitively assign significance to them. For instance-"

Elder Bolin pulled out a smaller stone tablet and with his fingernails etched a
symbol into it. Kano saw it and immediately recognised that it was an
indication of a sound - a particular pitch. How was he able to discern that? He
did not know.

"This is the culmination of a lifetime of work of a veritable genius," Elder
Bolin stated. It was as though the man read Kano's mind through his
expressions. Then again, he WAS an empath. "Some things take longer than a few
hours to properly explain. There is much ground to cover, so let me finish the
introduction at least."

Elder Bolin then resumed his explanation. "You probably heard a sound when
observing this symbol, but nothing more. Of course, there are limitations to
this as well, since it isn't universal - you need to be a mage to write this
script. I will now repeat the same process but with a minor change."

The dwarf closed his eyes, took a deep breath and exhaled. As he did so, the
same deep reverberating sound resonated from his throat. His hand moved the
same way, etching in the very same symbol into the slab.

There was a difference this time. Kano didn't hear a tone, he experienced a
vision. It lasted for a scant few seconds at best, though.

"We dwarves hate to admit it, but the dwarven script is heavily inspired by
elves," Elder Bolin said with a grim tone. "Are you familiar with the concept
of the 'True Voice'?"

"Of course, you wouldn't... Well, the True Voice is the language spoken by
every living, breathing being in existence... or so the elves claim. I guess
there has to be some truth to it because the progenitor of the script gained
his insight from it apparently. You see, the True Voice is deeply entangled
with spirituality and the soul. The exact mechanics of the relationship have
become lost in history, but the word 'resonance' was involved..."

"Oh, I know what that is!" Kano cut in excitedly. "It's when two things
vibrating at the same frequency add together and result in an even greater
vibration."

This time, it was Elder Bolin's turn to portray a confused expression. Kano
expounded, "It's like if two people are jumping at the same frequency and are
brought atop a shaky bridge."

"Hmm... It makes sense. Well, the progenitor started from that as the base and
tethered that concept to musical pitch. And by throwing the Music Script into
the mix, they created Dwarven Script."

"You may be wondering now," Elder Bolin hinted with a proud smirk, "given its
incredible ability to visualize entire scenes, expressing Dwarven Script
effectively must definitely require one to be a mage. Well, the genius of the
progenitor does not lie merely in their seamless integration of knowledge from
two distinct cultures, but rather in the fact that their creation does not
require even an ounce of mana flowing through your channels."

This revelation stirred Kano's heart. This was what he sorely wanted to hear.
Dwarven Script was tempting, extremely so. It was a totally new outlet to
express his creativity, something he was struggling to do nowadays because no
medium felt... right. He tried everything from the wet to the totally dry, be
it paint, chalk or charcoal. None of it really stoked his mind to his level of
satisfaction.

Dwarven Script, however, gave him an itch that called for a good scratching.

"Now that the introduction is finished," Elder Bolin said in finality. "Let us
proceed with the technicalities."

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-442:}[next >]

