@document.meta
title: Chapter 429 - Exchanging Pointers
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-03-06T00:30:36+0400
updated: 2024-03-23T00:16:13+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

An inevitable that did not come. Because the words that left Shay-Hade's lips did not go down the usual, "You dare, besmirch my with such trickery!?" or "I will have your head for this sleight!"

Instead- "That was well done," Shay-Hade said with a paradoxically serious expression. "You were able to assimilate my style of combat very quickly. I am assuming that the other two you showed were also styles you've observed or fought against previously. However, I am seeing a contradiction. The cumulative mastery you displayed in these forms would take lifetimes to cultivate. It appears you possess skills that defy the natural passage of time."

The man hummed in thought for a few minutes before saying, "The likely explanation is that you have some sort of eidedic memory. Well, that can't be the complete story..."

He continued thinking out loud, "I've fought against a mage that specialises in replicating what they saw. Their cultivation unlocks their mind's procedural memory potential, and was linked primarily to their muscle memory. In a sense, they could replicate what they saw exactly as they saw it. A side effect of this ability was the complete loss of explicit memory. Basically, they forgot how to learn and innovate. You clearly innovated near the end there when you mixed in two combat styles to break the rhythm of the engagement. I got caught up in my assumption that you could only replicate one style at a time."

Wei Zao intended to break the man's rambling with an audible cough, but he'd reached the termination of his analysis, "Am I close?"

"Kind of ..." Wei Zao mumbled.

"Take me back to the second to last move," Shay-Hade demanded before entering the same stance he was in before he received the unceremonious strike to his chin. "Come on now."

Wei Zao stood still, stunned, before apprehensively returning to his low stance. He quickly moved through the motion, but his feet was caught right when it should have struck his opponent.

"This isn't right! I remember that the move had greater momentum. Let us rewind by three more stages and try again," Shay-Hade said after clicking his tongue with dissatisfaction.

'What's going on?!' Wei Zao thought to himself as he repeated the last three moves before finally transitionig into the kick.

"As I expected," the man said contemplatively while blocking the strike with his coiled elbow. "When you think about it, it isn't anything too flashy. A simple style transition, but one that is so subtle that you wouldn't catch it."

Shay-Hade disengaged and proceeded to replicate the moves Wei Zao performed, though it was clear that he was unfamiliar with it. However, it was close enough to be passable.

"You exploited the minor commonalities between the two martial art Form that make them adjacent enough, such that when you initiated the shift, it flew under my notice," he expressed while replicating the leg sweep that arced upwards.

Shay-Hade revealed a wry smile as his attempt failed right at the end. Although Shay-Hade's physique was far superior to Wei Zao, martial arts was a lot more than just being strong and agile. It required a sense of familiarity to a particular range of movements that could only be built through repition, practice, and application. But it did surprise Wei Zao that the man was able to pick it up to such a degree of closeness in just a few exchanges.

"I refuse to accept that your minor success was purely through coincidence. You perform with a level of purpose suggests a certain level of proficiency in on-the-fly analysis and combat adaptivity," Shay-Hade theories while rubbing his chin. "Explain your rationale."

"You lack fluidity," Wei Zao blurted out. He wanted to bite his tongue apologetically, but he noticed that Shay-Hade was actually interested in hearing his analysis. And so, he continued, "When a fight continues beyond a certain point in time, you grow accustomed to the rhythm and lose yourself in it. Thrice, I noticed you struggling to adjust your evasive or defensive manouvres."

"You probed me three times, I caught myself faltering in those instances too," Shay-Hade admitted out loud. "What would you suggest I do in this instance."

"Why're you asking me?" Wei Zao said with an amused snort.

"It's hard to gauge what's wrong and how to fix it when you're the one on the inside. I can identify that there IS a shortcoming, but I lack the proper insight to dig myself out of that hole."

Wei Zao thought slowly for a few seconds about how he should approach this. He'd realised, through his past follies, that he had grown quite blunt since his arrival in this world. Before his death, he prided himself in his situational and social awareness. He never spoke out of turn and never insulted anyone to their face. He knew his limits, and when it wasn't appropriate to push them. He knew when to bend and when to stand straight when interacting with people.

But after coming to this world he'd grown abrasive. He'd offer up his opinions where it wasn't necessary. He would knowingly or unknowingly insult someone by speaking his mind and being honest. It was out of confidence, of course, or rather over-confidence that was wraught of the unflappable insights his library gave him. It couldn't be wrong, which means his words weren't wrong.

'It isn't my fault that others are getting offended by the truth,' was his rationale.

Speaking the truth isn't bad - it is a commendable trait. But knowing when to speak the truth and when to remain silent is even more valuable of a trait. Because there are certain truths that are tought to swallow. And like most medicine, these tough pills need a metaphorical glass of water to chase it down.

Wei Zao looked at Shay-Hade with a cautious gaze. He observed the man's expression and evaluated his words carefully.

"I can see that you spend a lot of time working on your basics," Wei Zao probed.

"It is something I take pride in, yes," Shay-Hade confirmed.

"Yeah... I think it is time that you move onwards," Wei Zao hinted. He waited for the inevitable backlash, but saw that the man was seriously considering his words.

"Why?" Shay-Hade asked.

"While there is value in bolstering one's basics, you are, at this point, fighting for fractions of a percent. It is truly not worth it," Wei Zao asked.

"I don't agree," Shay-Hade argued. "Having a strong understanding and proficiency of one's fundamentals is crucial in assisting one's growth. Even if it is fractions of a percent, the gains are substantial."

Wei Zao thought to himself for a few minutes before saying, "A scholar who is learned and a farmer who only knows simple arithmetic are brought into a room. The room is locked, and the two are glued to a stool that is placed on a moving platform. A hundred metres away from them, is a table filled with food. They are provided a large pot of water as well as a large knife that is within their reach. They are then told through a disembodied voice that every day, they will be brought closer to the table of food, but only by exactly half their current distance to the table. The next day, they wake up to see themself exactly 50 metres away from the table." 

"The scholar sneers and scream into the air, saying, 'I don't know what sick game you are playing, but I give up. We will never get to the table because the decrease is geometric. You can keep halving but the value will never reach zero!'"

"He then takes the knife and kills himself," Wei Zao narrated. "The farmer, however, only looked at the scholar with a sorry gaze and waited for the next day to come. As promised, he was brought to the 25 metre mark. Then it became 12.5 metres, then 6.25 metres, then 3.125 metres, and then 1.5625 metres, until it reached 0.78125 metres. The man starved for six days, but he was now within arms reach of the table. He ate to his heart's fill."

Wei Zao gave Shay-Hade a meaningful gaze, and let the message sink in. "You are overestimating the value of the last few percents you so eagerly seek to fulfil. In truth, you are now losing more than gaining by wasting your time. Look, I may not be someone who has the same level of experience as you have, nor have I lived as long as you. But I can clearly tell that you are forming an obsession. And obsessions are the bane of any cultivator because it can potentially pigeon-hole your cultivation and mould it around that obsession. I don't know if that is something you want..."

"Your age betrays your wisdom," Shay-Hade said with an appreciative nod. "And your competency. I will be borrowing that story of yours - it summarises my situation perfectly."

"Alright!" Shay-Hade yelled while clapping his hands together. He gestured towards Revian, who approached the tall man with slight apprehension. "I have thoroughly vetted this man, and I approve of him as your instructor. Listen to his teachings and apply yourself with the same enthusiasm you showed when learning under me. I expect great things from you."

Shay-Hade's expression mellowed out a bit as he added, "I truly am sorry, though. I shouldn't have abandoned you like that."

"Not at all, Sir!" Revian expressed while vehemently shaking his head. "You weren't obligated to train me. You only did so out of interest. I didn't take it personally, and I hope neither do you." 

"Maybe if it was some other time, I would have," Shay-Hade responded with a hearty laugh. "But I've come to learn that not everything is personal. The world doesn't just revolve around me. Everyone pursues their own best interests. To get offended over things like that is just a sign of pettiness and small-mindedness."

He patted Wei Zao's shoulder and said, "Take good care of this one," before bounding off the field and walking away with casual strides.

"What just happened?" Wei Zao asked out loud. "That did not go the way I expected."

"What were you expecting, Sir?" Revian asked.

"A lot more screaming, insults, threats, curses... I don't know... Something more uncivilised, I guess," Wei Zao expounded with an astounded laugh.

"What reason was there for things to go down that path?" Revian inquired, with a confused expression.

"People don't behave logically, especially mages," Wei Zao explained. "Be careful of what you say to people in the future, you don't have to always speak your mind - be a bit more calculative with your words."

"I understand what you mean, Sir," Revian acknowledged. "Sect Leader Larks has reinforced that we must listen ten times longer than we speak."

Wei Zao hummed appreciatively before looking up to the sky, "It seems I've wasted our practice time today with that unplanned spar. Let us break for lunch."

Revian hopped off of the arena while saying, "Lacey told me that today's lunch was partially cooked by Senior Brother Markus and Gaige. I am not looking forward to that."

Wei Zao chuckled as he thought back to the sorry excuse for a breakfast Gaige had cooked up for him when he stayed at the Bori Clan's Manor. It was a burnt mess, but it was heartfelt - Wei Zao appreciated that. He ate the whole thing. Nonetheless, it tasted just as bad as it looked.

"Me neither, kid. Me neither..." Wei Zao said with a fearful shudder.

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-429:}[next >]
