@document.meta
title: Chapter 444
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-05-05T14:24:43+0400
updated: 2024-05-15T23:41:42+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kam's days grew wearier as they passed uneventfully. Paradoxical, to be sure, but there was good reason for it. After all, he and his wife had slighted Elder Bolin, one of the most vindictive dwarfs in the Fel realm. He was the kind of man who would bleed a mosquito if it happened to nip at him.

Every morning, as Kam had his breakfast, his gaze would remain affixed to his front door, awaiting the moment that it would fly off its hinges and the enraged Elder would fly through it. Of course, that was the best case scenario, as long as the Elder could contain his anger enough to not level Kam's home.

Days passed without an incident, until it turned into an entire week. At this point, Kam had turned into a bag of nerves. Which was even more frustrating given how his wife didn't even give a damn. She and Kano were frolicking around in search of another instructor, which was also a fruitless endeavour. Since through offending Elder Bolin, they had turned into a poisoned chalice. No one wanted to become a target of the old coot by affiliating themselves with them.

But this didn't seem to bring down their spirits, as Dodi tried her best to impart her knowledge onto Kano. Which was also fruitless since she was a horrible instructor.

"You're supposed to make a noise like-" a rumbling sound echoed from her throat. "Here, try feeling my neck."

The boy massaged Dodi's neck as she made the sound again, but his expression grew more confused as seconds passed. Clearly, he was not getting it.

"Why must we make music using this sound anyways? Why can't we use an instrument?" Kano reasoned with a raspy voice. Having exhausted his vocal chords, the boy's sound had aged by many years.

"Music can be made with anything. But can you really feel it?" Dodi asked. "We must first be able to create music on our own before relying on a tool to do it for us."

"I can't seem to get the *cough* same flavour of sound," Kano expressed with a disappointed frown. "I just don't understand how you're able to do it."

Dodi gently patted Kano's back and encouraged him by saying, "Don't worry. We'll keep trying. Something will give way eventually- Kam, for goodness sake, stop shaking your legs! You're causing the house to vibrate!"

Kam looked away and noticed Dodi giving him an annoyed stare. His gaze lowered and he realised that his feet had been thumping away into the floor in worry. "How can you guys be so nonchalant?"

"What reason do we have to worry?" Dodi retorted.

"What reason? What re- Woman do you know what we've done? Do you still not realise the trouble we've dug ourselves into?" Kam shrieked in disbelief.

"Its been more than a week," Dodi reminded. "Relax, will you?"

Kam scoffed and said, "Have you never heard of the phrase: A dormant volcano is the one that is most destructive when it erupts? The longer the inevitable outburst is delayed, the worse it will be for us."

"What do you want us to do, then? Crawl over to his home and beg for forgiveness?" Dodi said with a sneer. "He's an Empath. He'll figure out that I don't mean it."

"Why can't you put aside your ego for a moment and think of the bigger picture?" Kam reasoned.

"There is no bigger picture here, Kam," Dodi retorted. "I did what I felt was right - it was something that needed to be done and said. I don't regret it. And if you're worried that my rash actions will implicate you and put you in trouble, don't. I won't let you get dragged into this-"

"How can you even say that?" Kam yelped in shock. His face warped with indignation. "You think of me so poorly. You think of me a scum who would abandon his wife for such trivial reasons?"

"So you mean to say that if the reason weren't trivial, you would abandon me?" Dodi responded with a narrowed gaze, causing Kam to sputter on his words.

"That's all you heard in what I said?" Kam asked with a wry smile.

Dodi stuck out her tongue in a playful challenge and skipped towards the kitchen. Kam dismissed her gesture internally, returning to his fretful brooding as his attention fixated once more on his home's door. With each passing second, his nerves tightened once again, and his feet began to rattle rhythmically.

Kano grew increasingly annoyed as the man's periodic stomps started to distract him from his attempts to learn music. The accented staccato beat carried with it the same discomfort and worry as the man projecting it. And these emotions were contagious, as even Kano started to grow uneasy as time progressed, which was the cause of his distraction. But he didn't know what to tell Kam to alleviate his concerns.

At that moment, Kano started to hear another beat resonating from the kitchen. It was a hurried and confident roll of metal against wood with a succulent squelch in between - it was the sound of a knife chopping vegetables. Coincidentally, the taps were syncronised. Kam's foot tapping maintained a regular and periodic rhythm, while the knife chops were twice its tempo, but came on for one set of four foot taps, then off for the next.

The synchronisity was uncanny. Kano closed his eyes and immersed himself in the casual march with an undertone of frantic worry.

Then, he started humming. His volume was low, barely audible such that only he could hear it. He crumpled his right palm into a fist and brought it down on his chest, causing the hum to jolt slightly. He waited, and tapped his chest again. And again. And again.

This jolting hums were layered atop the already existing percussive arrangement as a blanketing melody. While before, the sounds stood together yet remained distinctly separate, the hum melded the two sounds forming an entity that had an identity of its own.

A faint smile started to form on Kano's face as his mind started to fill in the blanks. The melody had taken shape, but it still felt empty. It felt empty, because it was missing content that gave it meaning.

But what was this... "content", Kano wondered. He ceased generating the humming sound and immersed himself in the cohesive beating interplay between Kam's footfall and Dodi's cutting. Eventually, Dodi stopped chopping, and all that was left was Kam, who had now recruited his second leg to create a subconcious syncopation

By this time, Dodi stepped out of the kitchen with a large tray balancing on one hand with sumptious food piled onto it. The common meat here was questionably coloured purple and was sourced from a creature whose name Kano could not pronounce and looked almost like a lizard snake hybrid, but it tasted suspiciously like chicken if you could get past the slimy texture.

"Come," Dodi called Kam, "Let us eat."

"I'm not hungry," Kam dismissed irritatedly. Dodi shook her head while releasing an annoyed sigh. She then gestured for Kano to approach and take a seat.

As Kano scooped the first spoonful of faux-chicken soup, he asked, "What comes after you can successfully generate a melody with your throat."

The hot liquid soothed his tired vocal chords as it trickled down his throat, eliciting a fulfilled groan.

"Well, with the melody, comes the ballad," Dodi answered. "A ballad is the narrative that accompanies the melody and gives it meaning."

"Could you show me an example?" Kano asked. Dodi nodded as she quickly downed her soup with one large gulp. She then drained her mug of drinking water, cleared her throat, and let out a reverberating sound from within. Her mouth was wide open, and her lips vibrated along with the sound.

Right as the pitch settled, she started to modulate the opening of her lips and craned her neck around like a bird causing the constant drone to adorn a whimsical skip.

"In tunnels deep where silence reigns,
A dwarf named Durum felt his pains,
For years he wandered, lost and lone,
Seeking paths he once had known."

Kano was immersed into a vision of a stout and resolute dwarf, young in age, as he set out on a personal quest to make a name for himself. He left with nothing but a pickaxe and a few change of drawers, naivete freshly plastered on his face.

"He pressed on through the endless dark,
With naught to guide, no single spark,
His hope was dim, his strength was weak,
Yet onward still, he chose to seek."

He found a massive mine-shaft, long abandoned by his people. Legends still persisted of a hidden trove of an ancient dragon containing mountains upon mountains of riches. Yet none could had found it for centuries. He went in gung-ho, with his brain muddled with the unattained yet sweet nectar of fame and fortune. But his folly was immediately realised as a single wrong turn had sent him tumbling down a path of no return.

The shaft was endless and dark. But the young dwarf was still drunk with the energy of youth. Yet with every passing day, this energy diminished. Days turned into weeks, into months and years. After a point, he lost all track of time, but he could physically feel himself aging. He survived off of the dew trickling down the sides of the shaft, and the moss and rodents that scuttled about.

"One day he found a hidden place,
An ancient hoard, a vast embrace,
Coins and gems in heaps were laid,
By hands of dragons, long decayed."

But one day, through sheer luck, he stumbled into the legendary cave of the dragon - its hoard left uncontested. And it lived up to the legend, as gold and jewels formed a nigh endless, sparking mountain range. Durum celebrated loudly, his voice resonating accross the hoard's walls. But in his excitement, he spotted a source of light streaming down from the ceiling. It was natural light! Unlike the fake illumination offered by the glowstones adorning the hoard walls.

"Above the hoard, an exit bright,
A beacon calling to the light,
He knew his path, the way to go,
But first, he’d climb from depths below.

He piled the gold with weary hands,
Each step a climb to freedom’s lands,
At last he reached the world outside,
With heart renewed and spirits high."

At this point, the exit was far more valuable than the gold. So, without tarrying, he piled all together with great difficulty, to form a mountain that reached up to the exit. He climbed up carefully, and the moment the acrid smell of the Fel realm's atmosphere assaulted his senses, he shed tears of joy. He took a deep breath and danced about in excitement.

"But there he paused, his thoughts did churn,
For wealth hard-earned, he'd had to spurn,
'If I can’t have it, none shall claim,'
He murmured low, and cast a flame.

With ancient words, a spell was cast,
The treasure turned to ash at last,
He watched it burn, his heart resigned,
No gold to chain, no wealth to bind."

Durum watched on as his handiwork annihalated all the wealth within the hoard. The earth rumbled under his spells and the entire hoard collapsed on itself, burying everything.

"No one believed that Doran found the hoard,
For if so close, why had none before
Stumbled upon its secret hold?
Yet Doran swore, both brave and bold.

He claimed the treasure, now destroyed,
Was real, though others seemed annoyed.
Upon return, they searched in vain,
No trace of gold, no mark remained.

Was it a figment of his mind,
Or had he truly left it all behind?
The question lingers, a mystery deep,
In shadowed thoughts and restless sleep."

Dodi let the music peeter off slowly. She opened her eyes as she exited her immersed state and looked at Kano expectantly.

"So? What do you think?" She asked.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-445:}[next >]


