@document.meta
title: Chapter 433 - The Basement
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: Volume 6
created: 2024-04-06T21:22:51+0400
updated: 2024-05-19T22:45:28+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Dora was afforded free reign to explore the mansion post the owner's departure, though she was ultimately just a captive in this world of polished and ancient wood. The freedom she was afforded was all an illusion. There were rooms she wasn't allowed to enter, and she wasn't allowed to leave the premises of the mansion, not even to take a walk outside. What at first looked like a massive abode, turned into a rather claustrophobic cage the longer Dora stayed confined within its walls. Not even its open-air design that interplayed the concepts of natural light and nature could liberate her from the feeling of being imprisoned. Every day, her world shrank further, and the massive room she slept in became smaller - like a cage.

Aurwen Swiftfeather, the owner of this mansion and Dora's captor, had vanished and hadn't returned for many days. And even though the mansion was by no means empty, the staff were nothing more than ghosts, gliding about silent and unchanging. Dora had begged them to talk at first, but they only stared back with blank eyes. It was only through some mild stalking and observation that Dora realised that they couldn't in fact speak.

Day after day, she learned their silent rhythm. Food appeared, always on time, always in the same perfect portions. A bowl of water, forever full. A spotless room to relieve herself, magically cleaned when she was done. And the toys … sometimes a ball, sometimes a silly stuffed mouse, and sometimes a prism that projected lights of different colours. If Dora were a few years younger, she would be totally enraptured by these items enough to occupy her for the entire day. But the novelty wore off quickly, and what she was left with now was just plain boredom.

Her life – that same breakfast, lunch and dinner, the same walk, the same nap, the same silly toys – was a numbing loop. After a week passed, it dawned on her with horrible certainty: this was how a pampered pet lived. Was she just that? A creature to be fed, watered, and entertained within these gilded walls?

As the week came to an end, Aurwen finally returned, and she returned properly miffed. Her face was scrunched up in annoyance, and her aura came off as someone ready to unload on the first person who crossed her path. Dora did not want to be that person, so she made herself scarce. The servants weren't so lucky though. The one that handed Aurwen a cup of beverage was showered in it (after the liquid had detoured through Aurwen's mouth and sprayed out of her lips). After that, he was dragged away by two of the guards who were following Aurwen for a stricter punishment, Dora assumed. Though she didn't see the servant being dragged away protest, scream or beg for mercy.

"Where's the girl!" Aurwen yelled. It wasn't a question or an inquiry, because she already knew - her mana sense targeted Dora as she was hiding behind the wall. Within seconds, the woman was standing before her. And although she was the same height as Dora, she still looked down at her with a frown that slowly dissipated into amusement. She then extended her hand and rubbed Dora's head patronisingly.

"How are you doing? Did the servants service you satisfactorily?" She asked.

Dora had never been asked such a question before, as her life had been wholly free of people to cater to her needs. "I guess so..."

"That's good," Aurwen answered with a satisfied nod. "They have been trained well."

Dora had a feeling that the word "trained" used in this context was different from just plain training to learn a skill, craft or art. This training held the same connotation as how a dog could be trained to fetch a thrown stick.

Dora was once again subjected to a rather forceful head pat while Aurwen rattled off instructions to her guards and servants. As she started to walk away, Dora decided to try her luck again and spoke up in a low voice, "Fancy-"

Aurwen's feet halted abruptly, and she turned to face Dora with a stern glint in her eyes. This was enough for Dora to take the hint, and the girl went silent immediately.

Aurwen did not pursue it further and resumed her gait.

"The Lady despises it when others question her regarding her pets," a voice warned her from her side. Dora jolted at the sudden presence and looked to its source. It was the same man who had carried her here.

"Fancy isn't her pet!" Dora said with a pout.

"The insect was claimed by Lady Aurwen, hence it is hers," the man affirmed. "It will do you well to understand that."

"Do you know where Fancy is?" Dora pleaded hopefully.

The man growled before disappearing from the place.

___

Dora's conversations with Aurwen were frequent but extremely taxing. The woman had a lot of sore spots and no-go topics. Things that Dora wasn't supposed to talk about would elicit the same stern staredown. Things that made Aurwen feel happy would elicit a treat of some kind.

Their interactions were plain and mainly consisted of long and continuous streams of questions and answers. It was heavily one-sided with Aurwen asking questions and Dora answering. The woman hated it when the tables were turned.

Even the simple, "Where are we?" caused the woman to scrunch up and spit out, "Why do you care? Do you want to leave?!"

Things continued this way for two weeks until Dora started to expertly navigate conversations without causing a stir. Aurwen would always enter and leave with a pleasant smile on her face, which meant that Dora was performing satisfactorily.

And with this improved performance, Dora's benefits also started to grow. For instance, she could now walk around in the forest garden adjacent to the mansion. And a lot of the blocked-off areas in the mansion were also released from surveillance. With greater "freedom" afforded to her, Dora roamed the woods and tried to track down the creatures that inhabited it. She managed to find every single one that Aurwen had introduced to her, and each of these beasts was uncharacteristically welcoming to her. Though Dora could not feel the sincerity in the way in which the Shadow Wing gurgled as she petted it.

It felt empty.

Furthermore, Dora couldn't find the Cullbear anywhere. Every sign of that beast had disappeared from the forest, even though she scoured the land in search of it. Needless to say, there was something fishy going on here.

Although her treatment got better over these two weeks, Dora did not grow comfortable. Because even she, a child, could see the grim undercurrents of what was transpiring inside the household.

At the start of the third week, Dora built up the courage to ask Aurwen a question.

"Why don't the servants talk?" Dora asked offhandedly.

"It is because they are thralls," Aurwen answered while moving the wooden fork with a chunk of medium-rare meat of questionable origin towards her lips.

"Thralls?" Dora parrotted. This wasn't a word she'd heard before.

"Do you not have thralls in Gaea?" Aurwen retorted, her fork pausing a centimetre away from her lips. "Then what do you do with the prisoners of a war or conflict."

"I-I don't know," Dora stuttered. How would a little girl know about complex socio-political dynamics and laws?

"Lawbreakers, prisoners of war, and ne'er-do-wells that are a menace to society are made to become thralls so that they can instead work towards the betterment of society," Aurwen explained. "They are soul-wiped and bounded to the entity that they will be tasked to then serve until either the entity dies, passes the ownership to another, or the bounded entity dies."

"Soul-wiped?" Dora repeated in shock.

"Yes, that is the only way to obtain complete obedience," Aurwen said with a coldly matter-of-fact expression.

Dora wished to eke out more information, but she could sense a growing irritation in Aurwen, who was still holding the wooden fork with the piece of meat impaled through it.

___

It seemed that Aurwen was still in search of the Behemoth. One day, Dora heard the woman screaming at her attendants and guards about their incompetence when it came to tracking down a creature so massive. There was a flurry of movement as they prepared for a second excursion, and within a day, the mansion was empty once again.

Dora was discounting the thralls now because she was more than certain after hearing about the soul-wipes that they were just ghosts living in a shell at this point.

Today, Dora intended to thoroughly explore a region of the mansion that always stood out as ominous to her but was off limits due to a constantly vigilant person guarding. This time, Aurwen had taken a larger retinue out on her hunt, which also seemed to include the guard stationed in this location.

After ensuring that no one was around, Dora sneaked towards this door, which was the only one made out of pure metal in the house built entirely of wood. She tried to apply some force to the door, expecting it to be locked, but the thing slid open without even an ounce of resistance - it was unlocked.

Beyond the open door lay a dreary darkness which blanketed a set of stone stairs that stomped down below the mansion - it was a basement. Dora held the walls with one hand and carefully descended the steps, into the darkness. The steps went on for a while, and the darkness grew murkier with it. At this point, though, Dora's eyes had grown accustomed to the darkness, and she could make out the shapes of the steps and the descending tunnel of a stairway, and she could also see the end in sight.

With careful steps, she reached the end and followed the hallway as it arced right until she reached another door. This was also made of metal and felt even heavier.

Dora pushed against the door with all of her weight, and it slowly slid open. However, as it reached the last fraction of its opening arc, the door slipped and caused Dora to stumble and fall.

All of a sudden, Dora's dilated pupils were forced to take in a large influx of light from the source hanging in the celing. As she squinted to get used to this sudden overflow of visual information, her olfactory sensors exploded as something rancid struck her.

She quickly shut her nostrils with her fingers, and it was at that moment that her auditory sensors caught something faint.

"*cough* W-What are you doing here?"

It was a faint voice, belonging to someone she had heard before, but whose name had escaped her. She looked up and saw the horrific sight of a bloodied figure nailed in a gruesome spread-eagle pose against a metal cross. His neck was locked against the cross in an uncomfortable position, and his limbs were stretched out disallowing any movement.

He was bleeding profusely, and his eyes were swollen shut. But his canid nose twitched as a familiar stench was registered.

"Wolf-man!" Dora yelped in shock.

"*cough* Thalias," the man corrected with a wry smile that came off with great difficulty. "And girl, you shouldn't be here."

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-434:}[next >]

