@document.meta
title: Chapter 434
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-04-06T21:22:51+0400
updated: 2024-04-10T14:15:32+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Dora had more-or-less forgotten about her fellow captive from the time of her arrival. Truth be told, she was primarily focusing on her own survival (and Fancy's) to think about anyone else. So it came as a huge shock when her covert excursion had brought her to him, though the circumstances of their reunion could definitely far better.

The wolf-man Krivax looked like he was hanging by the final inch of his life, barely able to maintain his consciousness to string words together in a meaningful way.

"W-What happened to you?" Dora asked as she slowly approached the bloodied figure. His wild and luscious hair at their first meet was now covered in dried gunk of blood and mud.

"She's trying to break me," he answered in a low whisper. "She won't succeed, of course... But trying hurts noone... except me..."

He then let out a low chuckle that then turned into a painful coughing fit that made him eject a mouthful of blood.

Dora started to grow agitated at the sudden expulsion of blood, and started to hop in place in worry.

"Why are you freaking out?" Krivax asked.

"W-What's happening to you?"

"She wants to enslave me," Krivax elaborated. His eyes turned hazy as he teetered on the edge of consciousness, but he continued nonetheless, "But it is not possible, because my soul is reinforced."

He then looked at Dora, as she stood frozen and trembling in worry, and asked, "Say, I'm extremely parched. And hungry. Seeing as how you've managed to come here without a fuss, could I trouble you to get me something to eat?"

Dora nodded hurriedly and darted out of the room. As he saw her retreating little figure, Krivax couldn't help but let out a sigh. He hoped that the child wouldn't return. He was a goner, anyway. In an attempt to break him and make it easier to enslave him, Aurwen had put him through a battery of torture modes. As it stood, he could feel his life slipping away so much so that a stray breeze would carry his last living breath away. To his suprise, the girl returned with a basket filled with fruits. She nearly stumbled as toe caught on the door frame, but she caught herself in the last minute.

She picked up the bright-red apple that was lodged at the top of the overflowing basket and brought it to his face. Krivax looked at the juicy fruit and revealed a wry smile, which also showed his gums that lacked a few of his teeth - evidently, Aurwen did not leave a single stone unturned in her process.

Dora's eyes widened in horrified shock, but she recovered quickly and pushed the fruit back in the basket and pulled out the softer, yellow plantain fruit. She peeled it and mushed it into a paste before feeding Krivax slowly. As the sweet necter wetted his tongue, Krivax nearly cried. But he was sorely lacking fluids to furnish that physical reaction. Luckily, Dora also brought a bladded filled with water, which Krivax gobbled down like a man stranded in a barren desert for days (which wasn't too far away from the truth).

___

Dora fed and watered Krivax for an entire hour. As time passed, he slowly regained his strength and bodily functions, and his injuries also started to show signs of recovery - which was normal as she found out that he was actually a mage in the Core Formation realm.

After that, Dora and Krivax descended into a long conversation, with Krivax letting Dora take the lead so that the girl would become distracted from the gory sights around her. Through this, Krivax learned about her past and origin.

"So you're from another realm?" Krivax reiterated. "Figures... your appearance does share some resemblence with the humans described in our annals. How did you get here, anyways? I thought the path between realms was closed for over 6000 years?"

Dora couldn't answer that question. Her knowledge was limited, and her experience was choppy at best. As she elaborated on the circumstances of her displacement, Krivax could only nod in contemplation. He had never heard of anything like what she'd described. However, after seeing the melancholy expression on her face as she described the life she'd left behind, he decided to stop the conversation and offered her some words of encouragement.

"I'm sure that there's a way back," he said. "A door is seldom one-way."

Dora hummed in half-consolation. At this juncture, Krivax decided to take over and continued explaining his part of the story.

"It was stupid to begin with, the woman is far ahead of me in cultivation," Krivax explained with an embittered expression. "But I just couldn't let her capture the Behemoth. That beast is a strategic coup that would cripple our commune if she were to become successful in controlling it."

Dora heard a lot of words that she did not know the meaning of, and her blank expression betrayed that fact. Thankfully, Krivax wasn't an emotionless block (or someone with a warped perception of emotions like Aurwen), so he rewound and explained.

"What parts do you want me to elaborate on?" Krivax asked.

"I have no idea what's going on, here," Dora expressed. "I have been trapped in this house ever since I got here, and Aurwen refuses to answer any of my questions."

"Let's start from the beginning, then," Krivax prefaced. "The Behemoth was the creature that you saw earlier. It is an extremely powerful beast capable of feats of strength at least ten times the power a being of comparable size can generate. It is primarily due to the immensely condensed musculature, highly elastic tendons with the stiffness of metal, and bones that can never break. Now all of this is before you take into consideration the beast's cultivation. As it cultivates and advances, the amount of power it can generate scales exponentially."

Krivax let Dora stew on that thorugh for a bit before saying, "A fully grown, fully-fledged Behemoth is amongst the handful of beasts classified as disaster-class entities in the Fae Realm. Luckily, they are gentle in nature, as long as they are left unprovoked and their territorial claims are left uncontested."

"Unfortunately, all Aurwen and her ilk see is a creature that can be added to an evergrowing menageries of soulless entities, to be used, abused or eventually let loose," Krivax concluded with a morose frown.

"Is Aurwen taming these beasts?" Dora asked.

"I think slavery is a more apt term here," Krivax corrected. "Taming implies that the beast has autonomy in some sense, but what they put beasts- heck, even their own kind through is akin to slavery. They impose their will over the soul of those contracted under them, making the contracted entity an extension of them."

"So the servants-"

"Slaves," Krivax interjected. "It is what she's been trying to do to me all this while. But as I said, she cannot succeed, Pollux has made sure of that."

Dora noticed the nostalgic smile on Krivax's face and probed, "Who's Pollux?"

"He's my tamed beast, my life partner, and my other half," Krivax rattled out excitedly. "I am he, and he is me. Unfortunately, I cannot introduce you to him, but you can see a shadow of his form in me right now!"

Dora took a step back from Krivax as through he were a mad man. He took the hint and let out an uproarious laugh.

"Girl, although I look like a hybrid between a canid and a person, it is by design. In fact, I used to look a lot like"

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-435:}[next >]
