@document.meta
title: Chapter 437 - Ice Breaker
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-04-19T22:36:40+0400
updated: 2024-04-24T22:58:01+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kano's gaze flitted around awkwardly as he tried to avoid the eerily penetrating gaze of the elder dwarf sitting unusually close to and right in front of him.

The Goonie ride to Elder Bolin's abode was interesting at first, but the novelty of the ride dampened immediately under the somewhat agitated gaze the older man sent Kano's way. It was discomfitting, to say the least. Kano was thoroughly coached by his most recent adopted family to be as quiet and non-confrontational as possible when it came to Elder Bolin, so he was afraid to even ask why the Elder appeared so excited.

This continued through a half-an-hour long Goonie-ride, which somehow felt longer, and had continued even after they'd entered the Elder's home and settled inside the room where Kano's "lessons" would take place.

And then, Kano waited...

He waited for the Elder to take the lead and start talking, but the man remained silent and stared eagerly at Kano. Seconds turned to minutes, and boredom started to spawn in Kano's mind. He was just a kid after all, and his vision was being overwhelmed by all the things around him! And in truth, the room they were in right now felt less like a salon and more like a museum.

First off, the Elder's home looked a lot like Kano had expected. While the man was capricious and caustic, he was principled to a fault. His house was spartan in appearance from the outside. It appeared no different from the homes around it, almost blending in, if not for the fact that its walls were barren and free of any adornments.

The insides were no different. The Elder liked to live a frugal lifestyle and it was evident by the fact that there were very few pieces of furniture, and the ones that did exist were aged though extremely sturdy. There were two chairs that were awkwardly placed accross from and facing each other right at the centre of the living room which was also the salon in this case.

Kano could also peek at the kitchen, and it was even more barren, yet impeccably clean.

But what really stood out, were the decorative pieces covering the walls. They were so dense that no matter where Kano looked, he was assaulted by the sight of something interesting.

These decorations were unlike the usual items that augmented a household. These weren't paintings or pictures, inlays or designs. The items that hung on these walls were of two classes: weapons or armour sets. They weren't placed haphazardly - there was a sense of order or purpose. Kano could make out that as his gaze moved upwards, the finishing of the items grew laxer, conversely put, it was as though whoever made these items grew more and more familiar with his skill as you moved downwards. How did he know that the creator of all these weapons and armour sets was the same person?

Intuition. In technical terms, there were similarities or tells that Kano could pick up. Or maybe it was just the imperceptible aura emitted by these weapons as Kano observed them. It was similar to how you could just tell a particular painting was made by a particular artist just buy catching their signature quirks in their work, like a rogue flourish that garnished every stroke, or maybe a particular blend of colour for a particular object that repeat itself over multiple works.

What were the quirks of these works that indicated their providence to of the same creator? The fact that they all emphasised function over form. There were no unnecessary embellishments in these weapons, and the almost adamantly straightforward design screamed out the fact that the creator absolutely hated anything that detracted from the functions of item.

At this moment, his eyes were drawn towards particularly wide-bladed, single-edged sword that was positioned right above one of the only two windows in this room. Amongst all the items here, this one stood out like a sore thumb, because it appeared to be the only weapon that seemingly deviated from the creator's mantra. Imagine seeing dwarf carrying and weilding such a weapon in combat. It was like a strange mix of a battleaxe and a sword, but it sacrificed all the good parts of the two weapon classes and doubled down on their downside.

It was also something that wandered into Kano's mind as he evaluated the object. But within minutes of doing so, Kano realised that his judgement was false. The weapon WAS practical, to the person it was made for. This was a special commission- well, all of the ones here were special commissions, but this one especially special. It had sentimental value. It felt personal too, as though the owner was-

"My son's," Elder Bolin's voice interjected. Kano's eyes darted to the man, who had turned in his seat and was following Kano's earleir gaze. The man stood up and gently caressed the polished metal and let out a heavy sigh.

"Did he... pass away?" Kano probed.

Elder Bolin's head twisted in a split second and he looked at Kano with narrowed eyes, furrowed brows and an apalled expression. "Do not wish ill upon the living by making such ominous statement! Have your parents not-"

The Elder bit his tongue and stopped speaking instantly. He immediately regretted his words, because he knew of Kano's past. He then coughed and said, "My son is perfectly healthy and alive. He has moved to another city to live close to his mother."

"You were married?"

"AM!" The Elder boomed angrily. "My wife and I are currently living apart."

"Oh, no! Are you two having a spat?"

The Elder slapped his own face in defeat and said, "We have a ritual where we live a decade together and then the following decade apart. It helps us maintain perspective of our relationship. We've been married for so long, that things started growing monotonous and irritating. A bit of distance helps us realise the importance of the other person in our lives."

"That's weird," Kano mumbled. "If you like someone, you wouldn't need to push them away just to feel their importance. You should just know it. I mean, I find Dora annoying, but she is really imporant to me and I wouldn't want to leave her for ten years."

"Your perception of time differs from mine," Elder Bolin expressed with a disagreeing shake of his head. "When your life expectancy changes from a hundred to five-hundred or even more, your approach to life will also change significantly. Forget about living with another person, you will even grow tired of living with yourself! Life, even with all its disorders, tends to return to a point of stability as you grow comfortable with a particular rhythm. This, if left unchecked, can grow to become monotonous. I do not wish to disrespect my wife, nor do I have the patience to get to know another person and build an intimate relationship with them. And my wife shares this sentiment. So, in order to stop monotony from taking hold of our relationship and turning it sour, we've decided to shake it up every decade or so."

Kano did not say anything in response. But his expression clearly advertised his inability to get behind this decision. Elder Bolin clicked his tongue irritatedly. He did not want to elaborate on his personal life any more. Right as he was about to reprimand Kano, the boy asked, "Did the weapon grow with your son?"

"What are you talking about?"

Kano walked up to the weapon, and traced his fingers over the Dwarven Script snaking and splitting around the weapon's blade.

"These scripts are hiding something," Kano muttered with a glint in his eyes, "And they tell the story of you son from his childhood to... his teenage years," Kano added while closing his eyes and immersing himself in the slideshow of visions and scenes rushing through his mind.

His immersion was distrupted by the loud bellow of Elder Bolin. "Astute observation, boy!"

As Kano opened his eyes, he observed Elder Bolin moving his finger over the snaking scripts, causing it melt into the metal, revealing lines of a gold-coloured lustrous metal. From afar, it appeared as though the sword was growing, with new sections of metal being added and mended into the main body, with the gold line demaracating the new additions.

But Kano could tell that this wasn't the case. Logically speaking, simply gluing on new pieces to an already forged sword would hinder its robustness. So this sword must be forged whole. But he could also tell that the gold inlays were embedded, not overlaid as decoration.

All in all, this was an extremely intricately designed and forged item that hid behind an outwardly inconspicuous facade.

"What do you see?" Elder Bolin probed with a quirked brow. He'd noticed that Kano was thoroughly immersed in appreciation of the sword, and wanted to gauge his thoughts.

"Why does your son no longer use this weapon?"

"He grew out of it," Elder Bolin explained with a forlorn look in his eyes. "Ironic, I know. You wouldn't believe it, but this started off as a dagger no larger than my middle finger, and I gave it to him the moment he was born. My wife reamed me thoroughly for that one."

He traced around a gold track at the innermost section of the sword, which formed the shape of a dagger about a finger long. After a half-chuckle, he continued, "When he grew too big for the dagger, I reforged it-" this time he traced along a longer golden track to reveal something like a shortsword.

"It was something I did off of a whim, but it came out really well. And in a few years I tried it again, and again. On the third reforge, I decided to add these Auro-Mithril inlays. I'll have you know that it is an extremely difficult procedure, as you don't want to sacrifice the weapon's strength. And I was the one to pioneer it!"

Kano could feel the pride oozing out of Elder Bolin's voice as he declared his achievement. "I didn't like the end result, though. It looked far too gaudy, and my son wouldn't believe me when I said that these didn't affect the weapon's strength. So I decided to inscribe over them. It was hard to come up with a legend to inscribe into this weapon, as my son was just a child without many achievements in his belt. So I just ended up writing his childhood. In the fourth reforge I managed to add more to it. And before I knew it, I was basically charting out my son's life story in a weapon that grew with him."

"I thought that this weapon would accompany him throughout his life, and it was my intention to reforge it for him as many times as he would need it..." The Elder's gaze turned solemn. "But my son outgrew this weapon. It gives me great pride as a father to see his son grew so powerful and renowned so quickly. But this sword... it could not keep up with his growth. My skill as a Smith and Enchanter couldn't keep up with his growth. He now weild a sword crafted by one of the most famous Smiths and Enchanters in the Fel Realm."

Kano patted the Elder's back and assured him by saying, "I don't think your son wanted to leave his companion behind. He was just as attached to this as you were."

The Elder jolted out of his reminescence and looked at Kano with a doubtful frown. Kano pointed at the hilt and scabbard. Spiralling around the two pieces, were inscriptions that started off childish and unweildy, until they became more confident. And interestingly, they did not match the style of inscription on the metal.

"Those were my son's. He wanted to learn Enchanting from me, so I tought him how to do it on his sword. The wood was easier to work on than the metal, so it was a good learning surface."

"They aren't random etchings," Kano expressed. "While your writings talk about your son's growth, your son is writing about you as you reforged his weapon for him."

Elder Bolin's forehead creased with doubt as he pulled the sword off its rack and turned it around, reading his son's work. As seconds passed, the elder's hardened expression softened and melted, until his eyes started to bubble with tears.

Before a droplet excaped the growing puddle and rolled down his cheek, he brought his sleeve up and dabbed his eyes.

"I never gave these minor details much thought..." Elder Bolin admitted. "It gladdens me to know that my son still has me in his heart."

"You have sharp eyes, kid," Elder Bolin said appreciatively. "Tell me, do you see anything else in all these works around you?"

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-438:}[next >]

