@document.meta
title: Chapter 417 - Involuntarily Catharting
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-01T09:30:21+0400
updated: 2024-02-03T13:53:52+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kano hugged the plate against his chest as he left the City Hall.

"This has got to be the weirdest trip I have ever made to the City Hall," Kam said while letting out a long breath of air. "Not only did I get to see the entire Registration Department bawl like newborn kittens, but I'm pretty sure I saw Elder Boling tear up a little but."

He turned to Kano and said, "You don't understand-" He looked around and over his shoulders sneakily before adding, "That man's a menace! He could make a rock cry, and I can't believe you got him to break down!"

"I-I-"

"Let me tell you something, kid. Us dwarves, we may be short, but if there's something we have in spades, its pride. And the longer our hairs grow the deeper our pride goes," Kam let out another hearty laugh and said, "That man has made me cry more than once during my childhood. You would not believe what he made children do- Eh?"

Kam turned around and noticed that Kano was enraptured, with his mouth agape, as he looked above.

"I-Is that the sky?" Kano expressed in away. Though it looked like it at a cursory glance, Kano could make out that it was a very close approximation - uncannily so. The "sky" was dark, but it was also faintly reflective, as though it were made of obsidian. And the "stars" shone with the same sparkle as real ones, but they did not move like they would in a real night sky - it was as though they were very close.

"Looks like it, don't it?" Kam said with a proud huff. "But no, that's just the ceiling. The city of Dhakhar is undergound. Most Dwarven Cities are. The world above is dangerous and hostile, out of our control. But below, we have control."

"What about earthquakes?" Kano asked innocently, which caused Kam's smile to falter slightly.

"I don't think anyone's really strong enough to stop the world from spinning, or the lands from splitting. Maybe if you get that strong, you could make a city that doesn't succumb to earthquakes," Kam responded while walking down the steps outisde the City Hall.

Kano followed along as he carefully descended the steps but he just couldn't keep his attention focused on it as it was constantly being distracted by the sights spanning all around him. The city was a marvel of architecture and design. It sprawled out before him, illuminated by soft, warm lantern light that danced across the stone walls. It may have been underground, but it felt cozy and inviting.

The buildings of Dhakhar were a testament to the craftsmanship of the dwarves. Each structure was constructed from various types of stone, adorned with intricate carvings and Dwarven glyphs that told stories of the city's history and the families that inhabited them. The cityscape was a collage of styles, with no two buildings looking alike. Some were grand and imposing, while others were quaint and charming, but all of them had a unique personality that seemed to jump out as Kano observed them.

Kano paused before one particular building that had a large mural elaborating on the journey of a dwarf through dangerous lands, treacherous waters, and through the highs and lows of life. The mural spanned all the way around the building meeting back at the point where it started, forming a complete loop. "This is interesting."

"Oh, that's old Garrick's work. He used to be an adventurer," Kam explained. "Couldn't stay in one place, that one. He travelled all over the Fel Realm and mapped it all out. An would you believe it, he did it twice! Was about to achieve it for the third time, but he got caught in a Guzzler's trap and lost both his legs. Couldn't walk anymore after than, so he spent the rest of his life adorning his home-"

"Kam you son of a bitch!" A voice called out good-naturedly from the window of the same building. It was a male dwarf, about Kam's age judging by the way he looked (then again, Kano didn't know how to judge the age of dwarved at all).

"Jay! You're back?"

"A few days ago. The journey was killer, but I got one! What about you?" Jay asked.

"Oh man I bagged myself one too!" Kam said excitedly.

"Pick a day and bring your wife over. Mine's been bugging me to host a get together ever since I got back," Jay said while scratching his forehead. At that moment, the other dwarf noticed Kano's presence and his eyes narrowed with confusion.

"Who do you have there with you?" Jay asked.

"Oh, this is Kano. He's... my adopted son," Kam said with a thoughtful look in his eyes. "H-He was just appreciating your old man's work."

"Was he now- Wait did you say adopted son?" Jay sputtered. "Him?"

"Umm, yeah," Kam responded to the astounded Jay.

"Are you guys giving up... you know... doing the deed?" Jay expressed while giving Kano a meaningful side-eye.

"Not really. This one's just part of my destiny, I guess. And who am I to say no to destiny?" Kam answered.

"It seems that you have some secrets you don't wish to share," Jay state while rubbing his beard. "Regardless, the invitation is still pending. If I don't see you and your family for dinner within the month, I will personally come to your house, hog-tie you and drag you back."

"Who're you yapping to?!" A grumpy and gravelly voice yelled from inside the house.

"It's Kam!" Jay yelled back. "Why couldn't the damn Guzzler take the top half of his body instead..." Jay muttered.

"I've only lost my feet, I can still hear you clearly!" The gravelly voice snapped.

"I know, you old coot! Now stop moving about unnecessarily, I have your metal polish with me!" Jay yelled. He then looked at Kam and said, "That cranky coot won't find peace until every piece of silverware in the house has been polished to a mirror finish. He's gotten so antsy every since his forced retirement."

"Did he make this?" Kano asked while pointing at the mural.

"Oh that? He made it the day he was dragged home after he lost his feet. Spent an entire month on that - no food, no water, and no rest. Everyone thought he was trying to kill himself off by working himself to death," Jay narrated with a wistful expression.

"I don't think your father is upset because he can't travel anymore," Kano explained. "He was satisfied after his first trip. He realised that he'd achieved his purpose in life. He went the second time because he wanted to feel that emotion again, but he didn't. So the third time, he voluntarily sacrificed his feet, so that he wouldn't be tempted to leave anymore."

"What?" Jay snapped in anger. "Who the hell do you-"

At that instant the door broke open. From the dust, half a man exited while carrying his weight just on his arms.

"How did you know that?" the old paraplegic asked in shock.

"Father?" Jay exclaimed from the window.

"Tell me, boy, how did you know that I voluntarily jumped into the Guzzler's trap?" The man dragged himself to Kano and grabbed the boy by his collar.

"I-I"

"ANSWER ME!" The man yelled.

"The m-m-mural!" Kano yelped.

"What of it?!"

"Sir, you are scaring him," Kam intervened, trying to separate the literal half-dwarf from Kano.

"TELL ME!"

"It only goes around once!" Kano yelled back in fear.

"What?"

Kano felt himself being release, and saw the assailant turning around and observing the mural he'd created.

He cleared his throat and said, "You went on an adventure two times, but your second trip isn't shown here. You document your first, and your third, but the second is missing altogether. Its like you don't even consider it a part of your story."

Kano saw the half-dwarf collapse onto the ground and let out a wry chuckle.

"'The hand creates what the heart feels,' it seem the ancient words ring true," the dwarf expressed. By this time, Jay had also exited his home, dragging along with him a wheelchair. He immediately approached his father and helped him get on.

"You know, your mother was pregnant with you when I left for my second trip," the dwarf started. "I know that, but I still left. I was only thinking about myself them. I wanted to feel the exhiliration that I got after finishing my first adventure so badly. And you mother didn't stop me, so I didn't think twice."

He then gently caressed his son's face and said, "But the trip was absolutely boring. It wasn't uneventful, but it did not give me the same satisfaction as the one before. And when I returned home, I saw that you'd grown. You were toddling around, and speaking gibberish - your mother was so happy. I realised that I overlooked the amazing journey that I could have enjoyed from the comfort of my own home and in the presence of the people I loved."

"Father..." Jay muttered in shock.

"Me tripping that Guzzler trap was both atonement and a precautionary measure," the elder dwarf expressed. "Atonement for abandoning your mother and you at such a young age. Precautionary, so that I will never have those thoughts, ever again."

"That's a bit excessive," Jay commented with a bitter smile. "You didn't have to go that far."

"I'm sorry, son," the man said with a loud sigh.

"Father!" Jay exclaimed, but he was quickly pulled into a tight hug from the half-dwarf. The emotional union lasted for a good while, before the two men separated, each rubbing their eyes of tears before the emotional dams burst. While Jay turned away, the older dwarf looked at Kano and gave him an appreciative smile.

"I can't believe that you managed to figure that out from the mural alone," he said. "You are quite perceptive to be able to pick up details like that. I didn't even do it intentionally, and yet you caught it at a single glance. I look forward to seeing you for dinner, then."

As the father and son reentered their homes, Kano felt an arm landing on his shoulder.

"We should go too," Kam said. "It's getting late, and Rhea hates it when you let the food get cold."

____

{:$/tgt/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/tgt/index:}[index] - {:$/tgt/volume-6/chapter-418:}[next >]
