@document.meta
title: Chapter 452 - Limitations of the Natural Analytical Engine
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-06-02T01:14:15+0400
updated: 2024-06-19T22:33:34+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

The world felt emptier nowadays.

The skies felt drearier.

Food just didn't taste right.

Marie moved through the forest lazily. She appeared distracted, and she was, but she ducked and wove through the shrubbery with uncanny familiarity. Of course, this was practically her backyard, and she had traversed these paths multiple times within the last few weeks.

And within minutes, Marie was at her destination. The meadow, that had been turned into a ravaged wasteland following the "abduction incident", hadn't yet been restored to its original state. But it had turned just a bit more pleasing to look at. A small hut-like structure, though more robust and permanent in nature, was constructed in the place where the hollowed tree once stood. It was now the "official" entrance into the wisp and slime spawn point within the mountain.

Letting out a long, and tired, sigh, Marie dropped her Master's bag on the ground and sat down with it. She rummaged through it and produced multiple rolls of parchment, unfurling them and using rocks to affix the corners so that it wouldn't fly away in the wind.

In the end, Marie laid out a convoluted tapestry. The scribbling strewn across it made little sense to a third-party, but to Marie it made complete and total sense. What had started off as a single page had expanded to encompass over ten parchments placed side-by-side to form this ever expanding quilt-like amalgamation of paper. Unfortunately, it had reached an asymptotic point - a point beyond which the growth had tapered off. No new additions had been appended to this stitched-together, orderly mess. It was a sign that whatever Marie's mind was cooking was reaching a dead-end.

She cast her gaze over the spread parchments, perusing the periphery of her works, hoping to find a thin thread that she could use as another kick-off point to continue her ongoing research. But all avenues led to a single, excruciating reality.

Mathematics was something Marie enjoyed. Numbers made sense and were honest. They could be taken at face value, and there was little room for interpretation - an equation or formula had a single meaning.

But numbers existed in an abstract realm. In that realm, scenarios could be plotted and quantified with beautifully descriptive continuous functions. The concept of gravity could be expressed with a formula with constants representing the masses in question, and with the independent variable "r" which signifies the separation between the masses. This "r" could then be modified over a set of values that range from the sum of the radii of the two masses all the way up to infinity. Now "r" here could take any value. It could be 1450, or it could be 1451, or it could be the infinitesimally many values that decimate between 1450 and 1451 like 1450.01, or even 1450.01023. It is in trying to account for these infinitesimally many possibilities that Marie was facing her current problem.

Marie was now dabbling with probabilities. Probabilities meant that for each proposition, there could be a range of outcomes. If each outcome had a particular consequential behavior tethered to it, Marie would have to recalculate and model this possible physical reality using a multitude of continuous equations that define it.

The problem was of time. There wasn't a strategic or smart approach that could help Marie resolve her predicament. She would have to brute-force through these calculations for the many probabilistic scenarios. And this was the conclusion Marie was ardently hoping to avoid. But the longer she stared at her work, the closer she got to that very conclusion.

Today would mark the final day Marie had allowed herself to put off from accepting this fact. Yet just as she came to terms with her monotonous days to come, her senses captured someone approaching the meadow.

"There is something to be said about predictability and its pitfalls," Shuri said as she ducked under the tree near the entrance to the meadow. "I mean, you've always been pretty predictable, but now its just getting absurd to the point that I think you should just set up a tent here."

"What do you need?" Marie responded dismissively.

"Cold," Shuri expressed while play-shuddering. "The better question is, what do YOU need? With Senior Brother Markus grounded, the burden that has fallen on you isn't light."

"I can manage-" Marie retorted, but Shuri cut in and said, "It isn't a question of you being able to manage or not. It is whether you can deliver results on time."

An offended expression painted Marie's distant facade as she scrutinised Shuri thoroughly.

Shuri massaged her forehead in exasperation before growling loudly and saying, "I'm not going to beat around the bush here, Marie. You're wasting time, plain and simple. When you've been assigned so many people for the task force, why do you insist on going about it solo?"

"I work better alone," Marie admitted with a stubborn frown.

"I could list you ten reasons for why you are wrong in saying that," Shuri retorted. "In fact, I don't even have to do it as you are already experiencing one of the ten reasons right now!"

As she said this, Shuri gestured at the mess of papers in front of Marie.

"It's my process," Marie argued.

"It is a pretty shit process," Shuri snapped back. "Do you realise that your stubborness is costing us precious daylight-"

"You think I don't want to find Dora and Kano an bring them back?!" Marie yelled in anger.

"I'm pretty sure you do," Shuri admitted. "But what you're doing right now, do you truly believe that it is the most optimal application of your time and skills?"

Marie did not have a response to that.

"I understand that you're mourning, but you need to work through that in your own personal time," Shuri highlighted with a harsh bluntness in her tone. "You are wasting away daylight stuck on the memories of a man who has passed away, when you have two live individuals waiting to be rescued!"

Shuri's voice crescendoed to peak volume and she yelled, "Get your damn priorities straight!"

Marie wanted to respond, argue, even deny Shuri's spurious claims and unkind words. But the rational part of her recognised the harsh truth. But her ego didn't let her admit that loudly.

Nonetheless, suppressing the urge to argue took all of Marie's strength, causing her to collapse onto her buttocks and letting out a tired exhale.
 pacman -S fish 
"I anticipated an uphill battle while coming over," Shuri admitted as she approached Marie and joined beside her. "Is it weird that I feel a bit disappointed that the agreement came so easily?"

A beat later, Marie spoke up, "Your voice, it's changing."

Shuri smiled as she said, "It was the same as it has always been."

Marie turned her head to the side to face Shuri and lightly played with a strand of the girl's hair, "Your real voice. Not the one masked by the pendant. It was much deeper, the last I remember."

"Senior Sister Jean's treatments are quite effective," Shuri responded with a chuckle.

Marie delved into her memories and fetched her latest memory of the girl from before. Her voice was a tad deeper, with a faint steely twang to it that was common with a masculine voice following puberty. But it had grown smoother.

"It really is overlapping now," Marie commented.

"What is?" Shuri probed.

"Nothing," Marie dismissed. "So, are you planning to undergo the gender transitioning surgery soon?"

"Senior Sister Jean says that the hormonal therapy needs to be continued for another month before we can decide on that," Shuri answered with a shrug. "She also says that it is best to wait for my core to heal completely before undergoing something so drastic. Besides, my core has healed significantly since then."

She produced a ball of fire the size of a marble and played around with it using her fingers, "It doesn't hurt anymore to do most basic spells."

Marie smile in relief. And after waiting a beat, she asked, "So I'll ask you again, what do you need?"

Shuri rolled over and tapped her finger on Marie's nose. "And I will answer just the same: What do YOU need?"

Marie sat up with her legs cross and spread her hands, "I need something to speed this up for me. Take a look-"

"Markus has been going about this study in the way that fits his comprehension. I am doing the same. Since I do not claim to be an expert in the field of spacetime, gravity, and all that shebang, I cannot follow in his footsteps and identify the root cause of the spatial tear and determine where the tear leads."

She cupped her hand to mimic a telescope and looked towards the blue sky, "My expertise lies in prediction and modeling. By understanding the exact behaviour of the world, I can extrapolate the movement of fate, which in turn helps me predict... things. Whatever caused the spatial tears to form has thrown the movement of cosmic bodies out of whack. And so, the predictive model I was using is no longer functioning. The worst part is that I cannot even use historical data to model this new behaviour. Essentially I have to start from scratch. And since I am treading new ground, it involves a lot of calculation-"

As she said this, she pointed at the myriad of equations dotting the periphery of her work.

"My current predicament is to calculate and recalculate, analyse and compare, and iteratively perfect the new model such that I can divine using the waves of fate again."

"Can't you directly divine fate from the waves of fate like Mage Nara," Shuri asked, knowing that she was treading painful ground for Marie.

"It is far too noisy," Marie responded curtly. "I've tried that, but the waves of fate haven't stabilised after the minor incursion from the extraworldly entity."

"If the waves of fate haven't stabilised, how can you use your model-"

"Hope," Marie interjected with a confident expression, but Shuri could see a tint of fear and uncertainty in her eyes. "I can only do what makes sense to me. At this point, mathematics makes more sense to me than whatever arcane, wishy-washy magic my Master used to do with the waves of fate."

A solemn silence lingered as Marie finished speaking, her voice descending into a muted whisper near the end.

Before she could dwell on it any longer, Shuri patted Marie's shoulder and pulled her out of her dismayed state.

"Lucky for you, I have the perfect solution to your problem!" Shuri declared with an uncharacteristic smile that split her face in half and even showed her pearly white teeth.

"Wow... I never thought I'd see you smile like that," Marie murmured.

Shuri slapped Marie's elbow jokingly and pulled her up with an enthusiastic skip.

"Come on! Let's go!" She encouraged while hurriedly stacking up Marie's parchments and crumpling them up into a messy tube.

"Hey-"

"Oh, please! I know you have all those equations memorised," Shuri shot back as she disappeared into the forest.

Letting out an amused snort, Marie shook her head while stuffing the mess into her bag.

"Well, let's see what this ruckus is all about then," she said out loud while walking behind the girl in a brisk pace.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-451:}[next >]
