@document.meta
title: Chapter 416 - I Knew You Were Trouble
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-29T21:36:18+0400
updated: 2024-01-30T11:47:03+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Something unforeseen had transpired inside the City Hall of the great Dwarven city of Dhakhar. An event so outrageous that it sent shockwaves throughout the entire building. The epicentre of the shockwave was at the Registration Centre, the department of every City Hall that handles the demographical information of the residents in its purview. Everytime foreign dwarf enters a new city with hopes of a long-term stay, they must register with the City Hall to ensure that their data is updated in the Registration Centre. If a new dwarf is born in the city, they must also be registered once they are old enough to speak their first words and string together meaningful sentences.

Needless to say, the Registration Centre was one of the more important parts of the City Hall as it was the frontend system, as in, it was the place where every resident must frequent at least once in their lives. Deeper within the City Hall lied the more specialised and often less frequented (by the average citize) segments such as the Hall of Justice, the various departments that handled the many aspects of governance, a Combat Arena, and other miscellaneous quarters. Yet even in these deep confines of the vast City Hall, the louds sounds of wailing echoed and resonated across its walls.

"What is that unholy sound?" A gruff voice asked while a large dwarf (for his species) rubbed his ears. "Are those... people crying?"

"It appears so," Elder Bogum affirmed from accross the larger dwarf. "It's the Empaths! Now that's something you don't see everyday. Here's hoping it doesn't reach Elder Bolin-"

"What in the name of Drebin's Nethers is all that ruckus?!" An irritated bellow rattled the large dwarf's office and caused the two individuals to flinch.

"There he goes," Elder Bogum said with a sigh. "The Empaths at the Registration Centre are in for a bad day now."

The angry old man stomped through the hallways of the City Hall with express purpose. It wouldn't do to have such disruptions affecting the peace of this hallowed building!

As he approached the source of the ruckus, the irritation just kept on bubbling. "How could the Empaths be so emotional! Where has all their training gone to?"

That's right! Elder Bolin himself was also an Empath - one of the oldest in the city of Dhakhar, in fact. He was also the one who was responsible for training every Empath that hoped to join the government and work in the public sector. His training regiment was grueling, and arduous, just like the one he had gone through in his time as a plain greenhorn. To be a successful Empath one had to be a paradox. One had to embody the emotions exhibited by the target they were empathising with, but they themselves could not express it outwardly. To that end, a large portion of Empath training was to establish ways in which the emotions that accumulated during the process of empathising could be drained out or insulated away so that it didn't accumulate and affect the Empath. Because it was far unhealthier to drown in emotions that aren't yours than to close yourself off from emotions altogether.

Elder Bolin considered himself to be a competent Empath, and by extension a competent trainer for other Empaths. As evidence, the number of "accidents" (the name assigned to the event when an Empath breaks down) had never increased since he took office as Chief Trainer. Yet today, almost every single Empath in employ had broken down, the cause? Well that was something Elder Bolin intended to find out.

The Registration Centre was warded heavily to disallow any intrusion from mana senses from beyond its walls. It was a matter of safety and security, since dissemination of private information without the permission of concerned parties was heavily frowned upon in dwarven society. Rumourmongering was a serious crime in and of itself. As a society that prevailed through dissemination of stories, having falsehoods in the mix was akin to throwing a work of fiction into a civilisation's annals of history. It was also because of this precautionary measures that Elder Bolin could not scry the cause from his office.

As he approached the Centre, the first thing he saw was one of his oldest, and admittedly most successful, trainee on the floor with his back against the wall and crying like his entire family had just suffered a tragic death. Snot was trickling out his nose and coating his well kempt beard and mustache and his eyes were a deep shade of red, overflowing with tears.

"Gruul!" Elder Bolin yelled, causing the sobbing mess of a man to flinch in shock.

"E-Elder Bolin," the man stuttered.

"What is the meaning of this?!" The old man yelled while approaching the crumpled Gruul and lifting him up by his collars. "What is going on here?"

Elder Bolin peaked over the man's shoulder and glimpsed at the scene in the Centre. A sense of foreboding washed over him as the sounds of many cries, all of which he could recognise from the time he trained the criers from holding the same emotion back, assaulted his senstive hearing.

"I'm sorry... Elder Bolin... I just couldn't-" Gruul broke down once again, letting out a wail that would shatter a normal individual's eardrums. The side effect of holding back one's emotions so ardently was that when the dam breaks, it often resulted in a catastrophic floor. One that just couldn't be stopped until the pressure subsides on it own.

"How?" Elder Bolin asked, but he could see that he wasn't going to get an answer out of the man in the midst of venting out his emotions. Instead, Elder Bolin let Gruul go and allowed him to collapse into a fetal position. The older man moved over Gruul and walked into the room that was now an echo chamber of crying. There were ten criers in total, each distributed all over the room and in a sorry state (though none were as far gone as Gruul). He scanned the area half in irritation and half in shock, until his eyes landed on the two individuals at the centre of the room.

"You!" Elder Bolin growled while looking at the child that had dropped in from nowhere.

"E-Elder-" The child exclaimed, but he was interrupted as Elder Bolin rushed forward interrogatively.

"What's happening here?!"

"I don't know," the boy answered confusedly.

"They were trying to register the lad with his own identification tablet, but none of them could make it past the early years," Kam explained with a bitter smile. "We don't know what went wrong, or if we made a mistake-"

"The fault can't be with you people," Elder Bolin dismissed immediately. "No matter how sad or intense a history may be, an Empath must never yield and compromise their stability. The fault lies in them for doing so, and in me for not training them well enough."

Those words resonated in the room, dousing the unharmonic sounds of crying and causing the criers to shudder in fear of what was to come their way. Elder Bolin was a hardass, and a stickler for the rules (possibly to an unhealthy extent). He cared a lot about face, and was known to hold a grudge. What they did was effectively damage his reputation through extension, which would surely bite them in the ass.

"No matter," Elder Bolin said with a resolute frown. "I have shown you a disappointing spectacle. I will take responsibility for it. In the mean time, let me complete the registration process."

"E-Elder-" One of the staff members said with a hesitating voice, but the older man growled aggressively causing the staff to cower with a low whimper.

"Now then," Elder Bolin declared while placing an empty tablet before him. He picked up the chisel and twirled it in his hands with practised elegance. "Since I don't know if my incapable pupils failed to explain the rules of the process, I will reiterate: 'Start from as far back as you can remember. Do not lie. Do not share what you don't wish to be shared.'"

Kano nodded and started his narration. The boy started with a story of how his early childhood was marred with hunger.

Elder Bolin recognised that he was an impatient man - that was a part of his core personality and something he just couldn't change. He also knew that he was biased and quick to form judgements, and petty. He'd heard others say it behind his back, and after years of drowning in denial, he understood that it was the truth. But he didn't wish to change. Change brought uncertainty. And uncertainty held danger.

A person's character is a sum total of the personality they are gifted at birth, and the cirumstances the world gifts them throughout their lives. Elder Bolin's life was frought with danger and death from a very early age as a child born in the midst of one of the most horrific wars of the Fel Realm - the Great War. It was in this crucible that Elder Bolin - or Gram Bolin as he was called when his hair still carried colour and vibrance - built his skills of judgement. It was this sense of judgement that helped him survive and thrive, and he was confident that this same skill would help him succeed in the future.

But he also understood that the judgement at times of war could not carry over in the times of peace. Yet to adapt meant to change, and change brought uncertainty. And uncertainty held danger.

However, Gram's sense of judgement blared out in panic for the first time since the end of the war. It had warned him days before the volcano his village was built in showed signs of an eruption. It had also warned him minutes before the Draconic Army initiated a sneak attack in the backlines. And it warned him the moment a part-human child was brought into the Hall of Justice, bound. Kano was trouble. And his instincts were validated as a lone tear threatened to spill past his eyes.

The more Gram listened to Kano speak and describe his past, the more Gram felt himself getting drawn in and enraptured with strong emotions. He tried everything to sequester them at the darkest confines of his heart, but they just kept coming. It was like a leather balloon being filled with water, and Gram was certain that he was close to the breaking point.

Luckily, just as he was nearing the edge, Kano halted. The boy had completed recounting his past.

"-And then, I was here," he said while letting out a tired breath.

Gram did the same, before standing up from his seat, "Your registration is complete," he said mechanically. "Now please, if you will excuse me."

He then walked briskly towards his office, activated all the protective and isolating wards in the room, and turned off all the lights. 

The day his parents died in his arms was the last time Gram ever cried in his life... until today.

____

{:$/tgt/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/tgt/index:}[index] - {:$/tgt/volume-6/chapter-417:}[next >]
