@document.meta
title: Chapter 454 - Putting the Cart Before the Horse
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-06-02T01:14:15+0400
updated: 2024-07-02T22:45:17+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

At the tenth continuous minute of Shuri's non-stop tirade on the beauty of the Agile Method and its application in project management, Marie had reached her breaking point and finally raised her palm to stop the girl from continuing any further.

"C-Can you just explain what the computational capacity is on this thing?" Marie interjected.

"Good question!" Shuri commended. "Theoretically, it should be able to perform 5000 operations per second, per computational core. Now-"

She turned to the blackboard and expounded, "-the initial goal is to have five computational cores in the structure. Though we haven't completely solidified the programming for the computational cores..."

"Anyways, an operation is simply any basic computational process like adding two numbers, moving data from one place to another, comparing two values and so on."

"What about multiplication or division?" Marie asked.

"Those are simple on paper but complex programmatically. To multiply means to add a number to itself a set number of times, and division is to subtract it from itself a set number of times. There is no easy method to do it in a single move," Shuri clarified. "But in the grand scheme of things, it shouldn't take that much extra time. Its basically adding, storing the data to memory, moving it..."

Marie tuned out Shuri's rambling as she went on and on about the system's operational procedure.

"How do you make the structure perform complex operations?" Marie probed. She pulled out a roll of parchment and presented an equation to the table. "This one, for example. How would you plot it?"

"You program the operations," Shuri expressed with a matter-of-fact tone.

"You don't mean... Wait! Do we have to program a core to specifically perform the kind of operations that we want?" Marie exclaimed with incredulity.

"That's the beauty of this structure," Shuri responded. "You don't have to! See-"

Shuri redirected the attention to the board and pointed at another "Story". This one was labeled Fetch-Decode-Execute Cycle.

"I took inspiration from the way I developed Yohn's magic wand. It's all about instructions - the way the logic is activated - that defines the way the system behaves or executes actions. This logic is defined in binary, which is the lowest level 'language' the structure recognises which can be directly translated into actions such as moving items to an from memory, or adding items in memory. The level above binary, which is barely human readable, is something I have dubbed Arcane Assembly. It is a human readable, yet obfuscated keyword based language. A level above that..."

Shuri pointed to another "Story" labelled Compiler.

"ArcaneScript is the planned, completely human readable and structured language, which will be what the user will write instructions in to get the Arcane Analytical Engine to perform its tasks. The compiler is another structure whose purpose is to parse the written ArcaneScript, and generate the Arcane Assembly that can be decoded into binary and executed by the Engine," Shuri elaborated.

She pointed at the ArcaneScript "Story" and paused.

"You don't have to worry about everything that comes after this. The ArcaneScript, the process of writing it, and its logic, that is where you as the layperson will remain- Well, that isn't exactly true. You WILL have to worry a little bit about memory usage, processor usage. Especially if you want to avoid creating unnecessary copies of data in memory and loosing the address to that stored memory which may cause- Tes! Write this down, 'Memory safety?'," Shuri took a scrap parchment and jotted down some notes. "There is also the question of concurrency. By design\, the structure can only support single processes at a time... Tes! Write this down\, 'Concurrency/Multi-processing'."

At this point, Marie jumped in before the discussion could balloon and veer off-course. "It is clear that the project is quite ambitious... How long do you think this will take?"

Shuri pointed at Marie, as though she had just spoken the magic words, and swivelled her head around the room looking at each individual present with a piercing gaze.

"You hear her, what is the anticipated due-date for this?"

"Why're you asking them?" Marie retorted. "It's your project."

"It's OUR project," Shuri corrected. "Ownership is shared amongst all participants. If they cannot take ownership of the work they intend to assume, then what's the point of doing the task anyways."

"You can't just foist ownership of a task on someone like that."

"I think its fair to give the power over completing a task onto the persons taking charge of the task, right?" Shuri offered with a calm tone. "And to be fair, this isn't some repetitive or menial task like moving bricks or painting walls, this is work that actually requires people to work their brains in a non-standard way. Even I can estimate how long it will take to move and assemble bricks to make a house, even though I have no past experience as a brick-mover. However, how can I estimate how long it will take for Tes here to complete the task assigned to him. It is something he has to explore and complete on his own."

She looked at all those present and repeated, "This is for all of you to decide as a whole. Evaluate how long the tasks will take and plan around it such that the project reaches completion quickly, and efficiently. I mean, we DO want the project to be completed, right?"

"Well..." Tes said with an apprehensive drawl. "The fact of the matter is... The entire project seems a little beyond us, you know?"

"What?!" Shuri yelped. "T-This is pretty straightforward-"

"To be honest," a girl in the crowd interjected. "Senior Sister, you sort of shot up during one of our Automagy Club meetings and began to scribble all of this out as in a trance. We could barely follow what you were rambling on and on about."

"The concept seems... magical," Tes cut in before Shuri took the girl's word as an affront. "And not the kind where you wave a wand and fire spews out, but the kind where you sneeze and the world explodes."

"What?" Shuri repeated, this time with a confused squint.

"I think what he means to say," Marie said, "Is that it all seems impossible."

"How is it impossible?" Shuri argued. "Look, I plotted all of it out in achievable segments."

"Maybe for you," Marie responded as she approached Shuri and tapped her head. "Your brain can make sense of all of this. But it seems that they are struggling to envision what you are."

"Is that true?" Shuri questioned the crowd, to which she recieved excessively enthusiastic nods.

"Okay... that is... disheartening to say the least," Shuri mumbled while scratching her forehead. "I don't know how to make it any simpler, really."

"Maybe if they were to see an example?" Marie propositioned.

"That's putting the cart before the horse-" Shuri responded instinctively, but her sentence was caught midway as another idea sparked in her mind.

"There might actually be a way to put the cart before the horse..."

___

"How can you sip tea so nonchalantly?" Wei Zao exclaimed as he entered Guy's room. A find scent of incense hung in the air, along with a misty residue in the air from the incense's smoke causing the room to feel congested yet soothing.

"Is this a psychedelic?" Wei Zao asked as she smelled the suspicious undertone in the smoke.

"Where I come from, this stuff was illegal," Guy responded. He was sitting cross-legged with his eyes closed, immersing in the mental mental lull the substance brought him. "Unfortunately, I am far too advanced in my cultivation for this thing to reaaaaaaaaaly kick in."

"So tell me," Guy redirected. "How's Revian's training going?"

"It's tough, I'm not going to lie," Wei Zao responded with an appreciative shake of his head. "It was much easier when the solution is right in front of you in a simple and concise book form. I don't know how you do it..."

"But it is a fun challenge," he added immediately after. "I think we are making good progress."

"Shay-Hade has good things to say about you, so whatever you are going I am assured that it is going in the right direction," Guy affirmed.

"You seem rather... relaxed," Wei Zao stated while side-eyeing the psychedelic incense.

"What would you have me do?" Guy responded. "It may look like I am sitting on my hands and doing nothing, but in truth, I am actually waiting."

"For what?"

"Inspiration," Guy responded, finally opening his eyes.

"What about the end of the world?" Wei Zao mumbled.

"What do you think I'm trying to find inspiration for?" Guy responded calmly.

"Then... Don't you want to find a way to get those two kids back?" Wei Zao asked with incredulity.

"That is what my Sect members are doing," Guy answered, once again, with an unperturbed, blank expression.

"For the first matter, I am confident that the optimal strategy is to wait," Guy explained. "Its like quicksand. The more you waddle about the worse it gets. You wait for rescue or for inspiration or opportunity to find a way out."

"As for the second. There is no need for me to get down on the ground and work towards the rescue. My Sect members are on top of it and they are far more capable than I am. This is, after all, not my field of expertise. The best I can do is provide support," Guy added.

"Then why are you holed up in here?" Wei Zao exclaimed.

"There is a saying, that if you get lost in the woods, the best course of action is to remain in place and await rescue. The more you move, the higher your chance of delving deeper and deeper into the woods," Guy answered vaguely. "By being here, I am making it easier for those that need assistance to come and find me."

"Oh come on!" Wei Zao said while exasperatedly throwing his arms into the air, "Why do I feel like this entire conversation was just a build up to that very line for the purpose of dramatic timing?"

The two shared a bitter smile, as they had both sensed the presence of a group of individuals approaching the room. The moment Wei Zao finished speaking, a series of knock resounded from the door.

"Sect Leader Larks!"

It was Shuri.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-455:}[next >]
