@document.meta
title: Chapter 428
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-03-06T00:30:36+0400
updated: 2024-03-19T16:09:30+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"Let's be clear here," Wei Zao spoke up with an annoyed frown. "The reason he has to study under me is because you weren't helping him reach his full potential. Why do you quarrel with me if I am able to give him my complete and undivided attention to help him grow?"

Shay-Hade let out a guffaw and looked towards Revian, whose head was hanging low, "Is that your opinion, Revian?"

The boy sputtered as he struggled to come up with a response. "Do not put him on the spot!" Wei Zao argued. "You are an adult, place yourself in his shoes and tell me honestly. Where you truly giving it your all and applying yourself to your complete potential in his training?"

Shay-Hade's face dropped visibly. Not because he was offended, but because he realised that there was truth in Wei Zao's claim. He really had been slacking off on Revian's one-on-one sessions, opting to group the boy in with the others whenever possible. Of course, this was a disservice to the lad, but Shay-Hade wasn't left with many options, a lot of kids were depending on him. Logically, if someone else was willing to take on this responsibility that Shay-Hade had left floating, then all the better for Revian and Shay-Hade.

However, he did not want his efforts to become associated with something sub-par.

"This won't do," Shay-Hade said after moment of contemplation. "I agree that maybe... maybe I haven't been fulfilling my obligations towards Revian, but that doesn't mean that I'll just let anyone take on the responsibility of training him in Martial Arts. I pride myself in the foundation I have built with him, I don't want someone sle to come along and make a mess of all of that by teaching him poorly."

"Then that becomes a question of my capacity," Wei Zao expressed plainly. "That is something I can prove."

The two exchanged a silent gaze that spoke volumes. Their intention was conveyed within seconds, and in response, Shay Hade started to walk towards the combat arena with intense strides. With a single leap, he covered the almost ten metre gap that separated them; they were now so close that only a thin leaf of paper could fit between them.

"A spar it is, then?" Shay-Hade declared. "State your terms of engagement."

"None," Wei-Zao responded within split seconds.

Shay-Hade quirked his brows up before probing, "You do realise that I am complete cultivation realm above you, right?"

Wei-Zao revealed a sly grin and said, "You want to test me. Then do not hold back."

"I am not a sadist," Shay-Hade said with an annoyed snap in his voice. "Since the test is of your capacity as a trainer for martial arts, I will limit the extent of my engagement to physical attacks. I will not cast any spells, and my mana domain will be confined to the surface of my body. Adapt to that as you wish."

With that said, Shay-Hade blurred from his position and arrived five metres away from Wei Zao, with his body angled to minimise the contact surface area and his fist raised into a boxing stance. "Begin when you are ready!"

Wei Zao tilted his head and examined Shay-Hade. At first, he resisted the urge to peruse the entry that the library in his soul had compiled for him, hoping to extricate himself from relying on the thing for everything. But he reasoned that since he was using it already to help Revian with his combat training, he wasn't technically the one teaching the lad. And since Shay-Hade wanted to test the mettle of the one training Revian, it was only right to pit him against the library. In the end, Wei Zao was only the "messenger".

Shay-Hade's analysis materialized instantly. A glance at the library's entry left Wei Zao perplexed. The man's abilities tipped heavily towards physical prowess, and his fundamental skills appeared remarkably solid, an area where most mages faltered.

Everyone understands the importance of fundamentals. Every field demands a strong foundation for rapid understanding of advanced concepts. The stronger the base, the smoother the path to growth. Yet, basics inevitably face diminishing returns – they are easy to learn, but incredibly difficult to truly master.

Take any martial arts as an example. A newbie could pick up the base sequences and Forms rather quickly. But mastering them and building them into muscle memory takes time. In fact, people only cover the first ninety percent of the basics before moving on to the more advanced moves and sequences. The last ten percent is where true mastery lies. It's the difference between knowing a punch and throwing a punch that shatters defenses. It's about internalizing the flow of a form so that it becomes an extension of your being, not just a series of motions. That final ten percent requires relentless practice, subtle adjustments, and a deep understanding of how your body aligns with the core principles of the art.

However, the last ten percent really isn't necessary. Getting the basics to that level is not worth the time nor effort when an advanced form can get you that right out of the box. Of course, there is great benefit to bolstering one's fundamentals. Its like the difference between having or not having a foot stool when trying to dunk a basketball. But if you are already a seven-foot tall giant with capacity to maintain an insanely long airtime, does it really matter if you have a foot stool or not?

Evidently, Shay-Hade fell into the bucket of individuals who found it pertinent to push their mastery of the fundamentals to its limits and covering that last ten percent.

Wei Zao surged forward and went for a quick right jab. Unsurprisingly it was blocked without much fanfare. But this was within his calculation. He followed it up with a combo of jabs that ended with a spinning elbow strike. Dodged, dodged, and parried - Shay-Hade effortlessly circumvented the attacks with minimal movement.

"Is this the-" Shay-Hade's taunt died in his lips as Wei Zao immediately attacked with a rising knee-strike that immediately flowed into a grapple that started with him wrapping his legs around Shay-Hade's neck and using the momentum from his descending body to destabilise Shay-Hade.

However, before Wei Zao could allow his body to swing downwards, Shay-Hade grabbed his collar, twisted and sent him flying. Wei Zao twisted in the air like a cat and landed on all fours. He did not pause, and leapt towards Shay-Hade.

The duo engaged in a quick flurry of melee attacks, neither side gaining the advantage... at first. Shay-Hade's eyes started to narrow as he realised that his attacks were being countered perfectly. His trajectory was being anticipated the moment his muscles twitched. Even his feints were being accounted for in some seemingly arcane manner. But it was also clear that the repartee wasn't completely effortless on Wei Zao's side - the man was being pushed to the limits of his concentration as the rate at which attacks were being exchanged started to grow more and more frantic.

After a point, Shay-Hade blurred from his position and visibly teleported behind Wei Zao. An attack that came towards him from his blind spot nearly clipped his ears as Wei Zao managed to dodge it in the last minute. He then followed it up with a similar flash-teleport counter. But any observer in the Foundation Establishment realm could see that this attack was much slower. Though there was nothing Wei Zao could do about that, as he was already pushing the capacity of his current cultivation realm.

Shay-Hade revealed a faint smile before exchanging a different combination, which Wei Zao barely handled before repeating the same attack, though at his level.

This continued three more times before Shay-Hade halted, cracked his neck and said, "I get your point - you are a suitable replacement for me. But that is not enough! Show me something new!"

Wei Zao nearly tripped on his own feet upon hearing Shay-Hade's challenge, 'If I could do something new, I wouldn't be here now, would I?'

But he did not let his thoughts show on his face. His brows furrowed as he inspected his opponent more thoroughly. Originality wasn't his strong suit, but it didn't mean that he was limited in the things he could do. If it was new that Shay-Hade was looking for, maybe it wouldn't hurt to display the breadth of his "knowledge" and "competency".

Wei Zao rushed towards Shay-Hade and initiated an attack with a roundhouse. As his opponent braced for impact, the whipping leg curled last minuted and the momentum was deftly redirected. The attack that came at a horizontal vector turned completely vertical as his heels struck right where Shay-Hade's head was supposed to be. "Supposed" being the keyword, since it was not there by the time the attack was supposed to make contact. But that didn't matter, because the combination was just getting started. Wei Zao's attack turned into an elaborate dance that cycled through a myriad of lower body based attacks. If Shuri were here, she would immediately recognise the style as that belonging to the Sol Clan. The attacks were vigorous and driven with momentum, furthermore each attack chained with the next forming a contiguous sequence - an elegantly vicious combat style.

But this did not affect Shay-Hade that much, since the wide motions offered him sufficient time to prepare his defences. He dodged more, blocked less, because the attacks were more destructive. Just as he was getting into the rhythm, he felt a strike cracking against his shin. He lowered his guard, which had unwittingly blocked his vision, and noticed that Wei Zao was no longer standing, but was in a very low crouch.

"What are you-"

Another sweeping shin strike destabilised Shay-Hade, who instinctively took a few leap backs to build distance.

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-428:}[next >]
