@document.meta
title: Chapter 445 - Being the Bigger Dwarf
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-05-05T14:24:43+0400
updated: 2024-08-05T00:55:03+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"How ironic..." Kano said with a mirthful chuckle. "A single moment of
selfishness and greed cost him his credibility. Had he left the treasure as is,
he would have sacrificed a large portion of it, but would have walked out of
that whole trial with something of value."

A moment of realisation struck Kano and his eyes widened considerably, "Is that
the moral of the story? Wait, this wasn't a real story?!"

Darvia smiled and said, "It is a true story, though it has been diluted over
the ages. The original ballad goes into much detail about how he survived all
on his own- well it WAS originally written by Durum the Shortsighted - the very
protagonist of the ballad."

"So was there a dragon's hoard or not?" Kano asked expectantly, to which Darvia
shrugged and responded, "Only Durum knows. Though no one else has seen it, the
fact that the ballad can invoke the experience is reason enough for most to
believe its existence."

This confused Kano. He found it weird that it didn't take much convincing apart
from a vivid story to make the dwarves believe a claim. In Gaea, people weren't
so inherently trusting. If something didn't comply with their preexisting
biases and knowledge, or the common knowledge that prevailed, it was
immediately dismissed. 

And then, as he sobered up from the exhilarating ballad, he was assaulted by a
horrible thought, "How do you formulate the words amidst the throat-singing?"

He was already struggling with making that forsaken noise, and now there was
more to it. Kano was on the verge of just giving up as this experience was
forcing him to relive his insufferable younger years - basically before Sect
Leader Larks entered his life.

After living most of his life in the painful shadow of his own perceived
incompetence (which was in large part a result of his environment reinforcing
that belief), Kano had lost confidence in himself. It took a lot of effort both
from his side and from Sect Leader Larks to get over this self-imposed stigma.

And right now, things were somehow starting to feel like he had reverted to
square one all over again. The gazes he was forced to bear were a lot like
those of his peers from before. Of course, Darvia didn't mean any harm - her
"It's only natural. How can you not understand this?" look was without any
malicious intent. She couldn't fathom how the task of throat singing and actual
singing were so difficult to execute together. Kano, on the other hand,
couldn't do one, how could he presume to do them both simultaneously?

"Don't you worry," Darvia said while rubbing Kano's shoulder. "I'm sure that
you'll get it... eventually."

A forced smile that portrayed acceptance was all Kano could reveal at this
point. Then, suddenly, Kano heard a sound of aggressive shuffling. He turned to
see Kam stumbling out of his seat in a bluster.

"What are you-" Darvia blurted out, but her husband pushed a finger against his
lips and returned a manic look. At that moment, a series of plan knocks cut
through the panic causing it to suddenly turn tense. Darvia mouthed whether it
was Elder Bolin towards Kam, and he returned with a morose shake of his head.

Something felt off.

"It's me..." A gruff voice called out from beyond, with a tired sigh
accentuating his words. "Fargrim Dwynn."

The two inhabitants sputtered simultaneously in shock and Kam hurriedly fumbled
towards the door and opened it. Through it, Kano saw a familiar face. It was a
large dwarf (relatively speaking) who was built like a tank. His musculature
was practically bursting out of his half-sleeved plain-cotton shirt. In fact,
Kano was certain that a rogue flex would decimate the fabric altogether. His
long and glowing dirty-brunette locks were tied up into a majestic ponytail,
and his abundant facial hair was also tied up cleanly into knots. All in all,
he looked like a perfect gentle-dwarf and a beast at the same time.

What came across as familiar was the fact that Kano had met this person before.
He was seated at the centre of the tribunal when Kano's fate was being decided
after being brought to this planet.

"Lord Dwynn!" Kam greeted, "Please, come in."

The dwarf hummed, which came across as a low growl and entered the couple's
home. He located a seat nearby and sat down, and the seat sang in agony under
his weight.

"I will keep this brief," he said before Darvia could come forth and ask him
whether he wanted refreshments. "I wanted to hear your side of the story about
what happened between you and Elder Bolin."

As Kam prepared to answer, Darvia walked forward and interjected,
"Respectfully, Lord Dwynn, is there a reason why you must get involved in this?
After all, it is a personal disagreement."

Lord Dwynn rubbed his luscious beard in thought before admitting, "Be that as
it may, unfortunately, your spat has spread over to official operations in
Dhakhar's City Hall."

This drew a confused look between the couple.

"You see, ever since your public argument, Elder Bolin hasn't reported to work.
He has effectively locked himself in, and he simply refuses to leave."

"That's not wholly uncommon," Kam reasoned. "I believe most advanced dwarves
have done that - to train in isolation."

"Firstly, the mana signature in and around the Elder's household is regular
without any disturbances, so we can rule out that possibility. Furthermore,
there has to be a proper handoff or notice before it," Lord Dwynn corrected.
"If people are in a position of responsibility and authority, there are strict
guidelines in place that need to be adhered to. And usually, Elder Bolin is a
stickler for these guidelines. The fact that he has skirted them is...
suspicious and concerning.

He let the situation simmer before letting out a tired sigh. "I would rather
not get involved in this mess. But as someone burdened with the task of
ensuring that the City functions effectively, I am forced to interfere in what
is essentially a personal disagreement. Now, I do not know, and frankly do not
care, who is in the right and who is in the wrong here. All I want is for Elder
Bolin to return to his station immediately."

Darvia furrowed her brows and said, "You are asking me to apologise to him?"

"I am asking you to resolve this," Lord Dwynn emphasised. "Apologise, don't
apologise, that is your choice."

"Then why do you place us in this position? Isn't your presence here reason
enough for us to think that you believe we were in the wrong?" Darvia argued.

The large dwarf closed his eyes and growled lightly in denial, "I approached
Lord Bolin first. But he would not talk to me. And so I come to you-"

He slapped his armrest twice before standing up and saying, "Look, it matters
not to me if this situation is resolved or not. If Elder Bolin refuses to
report within the day, I will be left with no choice but to have him removed
from his position. I cannot afford to have an unproductive entity occupying a
seat. So my presence here, before you, is to ask you folks to resolve your
differences like mature adults."

With all that said, the man gave a simple nod to signify his departure and left
the Bruin Household, leaving the place drenched in a kind of apprehensive
silence.

"We should go talk to Elder Bolin," Kam squeezed through his teeth with a
flinch-nocked in preparation for his wife's retaliation.

"What? Why?" Darvia snapped back predictably.

"It's a man's livelihood and reputation at stake here," Kam pleaded. "A
dismissal from City Hall isn't something to scoff at. It is effectively an iron
bowl that cannot be unturned, yet to be dismissed from it... One must do
something truly abhorrent. That stain will be tough to cleanse away."

"What does that have to do with us?" Darvia expressed animatedly. "Elder Bolin
is a grown man, he understands the consequences perfectly well. If he refuses
to step up, then why must we act?"

"Because we were wrong to air our grievances with Elder Bolin out in the public
like that," Kam answered with a neutral tone.

"He started it!" Darvia retorted immediately. She then clicked her tongue as
she recognised her immaturity. "He WAS the one who chose to confront us in
public."

"Okay... So both of us were in the wrong," Kam rebutted with a chuckle. "So
what's stopping us from apologising for our wrongdoings?"

"Ego," Kano mumbled. As both their attentions turned to the lad, he scampered
away in embarrassment.

"He has a point," Kam said with a bellowing laugh. "There is no shame in
apologising if we are admitting fault sincerely."

"Kam, you don't understand... It's not that I am against apologising," Darvia
paused as her expression grew anxious and her gaze darted around in worry. "We
don't know his state of mind. What if he-"

"Hurts us?" Kam interjected. "If Lord Dwynn approached us, it must mean that he
will be paying attention to the situation. We will be safe."

Darvia groaned loudly as her pathways narrowed, leaving only one way forward.
She groaned again, much louder, as she grappled with facing the consequences of
her actions. She groaned once again, as she anticipated the interaction between
her and Elder Bolin. Then, after one final groan, she let out a long exhale and
said, "FINE! Let us go..."

"C-Can I come too?" Kano probed from the back. His voice was low but audible.
"I would like to apologise too."

"What for?" Darvia asked with a raised brow.

"Well... I feel like all of this was because of me, so... I want to apologise,"
he explained while twiddling his thumbs anxiously.

Kam approached the boy and wrapped his arm over his shoulder - as the child had
somehow grown within the few days they were together, Kam had to reach a bit
higher.

"Alright! Let us go!"

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-446:}[next >]


