@document.meta
title: Chapter 430 - We're Not in Gaea Anymore, Fancy
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-03-24T15:35:44+0400
updated: 2024-03-26T21:56:17+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Dora involuntarily held her breath as the pale-faced woman approached her, discomfort flooding her senses. The woman's small frame twisted with amusement, tinged with a hint of disdain. Just as Dora was about to cry out for help, the woman's attention was abruptly drawn to Fancy.

"What a fascinating creature," the woman mumbled with a predatory glint in her eyes. She locked gazes with the insect, and Dora felt a faint pressure wash over her.

"Huh?" The woman exclaimed in surprise while involuntarily taking a few steps back. "That sure is odd. Little girl, is this one yours?"

Dora returned a blank stare at the woman's question.

"Hello~" She said while waving her hands to draw Dora's attention. "Do. You. Understand. The. Words. Coming. Out. Of. My. Mouth? I'm sure I heard her speak..."

"I-I understand," Dora stuttered.

"Well then, this creature-" she continued while pointing at Fancy, who was also woven into a cocoon along with Dora and the wolf-man-thing, "-does it belong to you?"

"S-She doesn't belong to me," Dora answered.

"Hmm... That wasn't a lie..." the woman mumbled, "Is she someone else's then?"

Dora shook her head, or at least she tried to do that given the reduced range of motion in her current state.

"That sure is odd..." the woman muttered. "Well, no matter. I lost a Behemoth but gained something more interesting. And you..."

The little woman encroached the wolf-man drowning in white fibres. He immediately descended into a struggling fit, though he could not break free from all the webbing. He let out a growl in frustration, "I will skin you alive, you fiend!"

"Oh stop mumbling, you know that I cannot hear you," the woman scoffed while giving the man a slap.

"I will disembowel you and bathe the realm in your blood!" The man spoke, though his lips did not move.

The woman grabbed his snout and let her long nails dig in, "Your interference has cost me previous time and resources. I will exact this toll from you, in turn. Though I must warn you, the resources wasted are paltry, but my time... That is worth more than the lives of you and your ilk."

The pale-skinned woman turned abruptly and started to walk away. Just as Dora was about to call her, she found herself moving as well. Looking down (again with great difficulty), she noticed that she was being carried by one of the spider-creatures responsible for her fate. Though coincidentally, she found herself face to face with the wolf-man, who looked miserably bound.

"Umm... hello," Dora greeted the man.

"Just what are you?" The man asked, though again, his lips did not move.

"I am Dora," she answered.

"Who are you talking to?" The woman asked in a faint sing-song voice.

"I-I don't know. He hasn't told me his name yet," Dora spoke back. To that, the woman burst into a fit of exagerrated laughter. "Girl, his name doesn't matter. It was forfeit the moment my Arachnae captured him. You might as well give him a name of your own."

"B-But he's a person, an old one at that. I can't give him a name," Dora said in a low voice. But the woman's senses were permanently trained on the three captured beings, so she heard everything.

"Do you really think he's a person? Take a good look at him. From what angle does he look like one? What you have right there is a mutt - an abomination of the highest order. He is an unholy union of elf and beast!" The woman spat with overflowing disgust. "Since we're on the subject, what are you exactly? You don't look like an elf."

"Umm... I am Dora," Dora repeated, with uncertainty lacing his tone.

"What species are Doras. Where are you endemic to?" The woman followed up.

"Doras are a species, silly! That's my name," Dora giggled. But her laugh was met with cold silence, that started to build up in intensity. The woman halted in her steps and turned around, revealing a murderous gaze, "I will let you off the hook considering that you are still a child. But this is you final chance. You do not call me silly."

"O-Okay..." Dora quickly assented.

"And she calls me a beast," the wolf-man said, though the actual sound came out as an indescernible mumble.

"What is your name, Uncle?" Dora whispered.

"Are you talking to me?" The man responded in surprise. He looked at the girl with confusion wrinkling his forehead.

"Uh, yes," Dora answered.

"You ARE talking to me. Wait! How are you talking to me?" The man rattled off in quick succession. Dora could hear his words perfectly well, but to any casual observer, all they could hear would be a series of incomprehensible noises.

"Like this?"

"B-But how-"

At that moment, the processions halted once again. The woman turned around and approached Dora with an intense frown. "You were talking to him. How?"

Dora looked at the woman, and unabashedly repeated, "Like this?"

The woman growled as she sent a palm strike towards Dora's abdomen. All the air in her lungs escaped within seconds, and so did the contents of her guts, though a timely clenching of her teeth helps hold back the vomit.

"Your soul remains untainted..." the woman mumbled as her expression calmed down. "How curious."

"Run away little one, whenever you have the chance. You do not-"

The little woman punched the wolf-man's head, causing him to lose consciousness, "How irritating!"

She turned to Dora with a fanatical expression. "So what exactly are you, Dora?"

___

Dora had a hyperactive imagination, a lot more than an average child her age. Maybe not as much as her bother, but that wasn't a valid basis of comparison as Kano's mind held a whole another world in and of itself. 

But no amount of suspension of disbelief could prepare her for what she was going through at the moment. She was certain of one thing, she was no longer close to home.

Dora once heard a joke from a travelling merchant. "Let me ask you a question, how many birds do you think live in Twilight Village?"

She did not know the answer, to which the merchant revealed a sly grin and said, "Exactly one-hundred!"

"You're lying!" Dora denied.

"Nope! You can count it yourself. Twilight Village has exactly a hundred birds. Any more, and they are from the neighbouring village or town. Any less, then the once living here probably travelled out to the neighbouring village or town."

Dora look at him sceptically. She didn't know that he was joking at the time. She actually went on a mission to interrogate each and every bird she came accross that week, and finally found out that, "You're wrong!"

The man looked at her in confusion.

"There are three-hundred and thirty three birds native to Twilight Village," Dora said proudly. The man let out a chuckle and rubbed her head. She realised much later that he was just playing with her. The thought alone illicited a cringe of embarrassment from her.

The man may have lied in jest, but there was some truth to his words. In fact, amongst the over thousand birds she interrogated, she found out that many had come from cities, townships and even countries beyond her knowledge. Some had travelled accross oceans too, and regaled her of stories of lands beyond the Vast Blue Expanse.

Through equivalence, Dora realised that no matter where she was, she could find a bird that lived close to her home. This meant that she could never be lost.

And yet she could not hear a single bird in her surrounding that advertised that it was from close to Twilight Village.

She could not hear anything at all. Which was even odder, because birds were a talkative bunch. And wherever they traveled, the world would be alive with their chirps and songs.

But for the past half an hour long travel, wherever Dora went, the world would turn quiet - unnaturally still. The only sound she could hear was the infrequent grunts and struggles of the wolf-man. He stopped communicating with her altogether after he realised that they could not talk covertly.

Dora tried to talk with Fancy, but the insect decisively replied, "We shouldn't talk."

Before Dora could follow up with a question, Fancy added, "She can hear you talk. Though I am certain she cannot hear me, nor the wolf-man."

"I am Thalias," the wolf-man expressed with a grunt that was laced with annoyance.

"Are you talking with me using mana transmission?" Dora inquired the wolf- Thalias.

"He cannot use mana transmission," the woman answered on his behalf. "The webbing is infused with Dimiretium. It completely neutralises magic."

"She speaks the truth," Fancy expressed. "I cannot use any of my abilities."

"W-Where are you taking us?" Dora asked fearfully. "P-Please I just want to go home!"

"Where is your home?" The woman asked.

"Twilight Village! It is in the Maika Duchy of the Radiant Empire," Dora narrated quickly. Her eyes sparkled with hope as the woman stopped in her track. However, contrary to her expectation, the woman's shoulders jumped mirthfully.

"No such place exists here, little girl," the woman responded with an amused smile.

Dora flinched in disbelief, but was shocked to her the captive Thalias express, "She speaks the truth. I have not heard of such a place."

"M-Maybe its on the other side of the Vast Blue Expanse?" Dora said with waning hope.

""What is that?"" Both the woman and the wolf-man asked in unison.

"It's one of the two largest oceans of the world," Dora explained.

"There is only one ocean, and it is Nameless, for it is practically endless," the woman responded. "Girl, where exactly are you from?"

It was at that moment, that Dora's fears became realised. Because now, she could confirm undeniably- "Is this planet called Gaea?"

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-431:}[next >]

