@document.meta
title: Chapter 427 - Complex
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-03-06T00:30:36+0400
updated: 2024-03-14T00:03:22+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"Is your favour to heal this lad?" Wei Zao asked. The way he made this claim implied that it was no big deal, which also illicited a surprised arched brow from Revian. Guy wasn't so affected by Wei Zao's casual remark, he had an inkling that his power would offer a solution of some sort. A crippled cultivation wasn't that unlikely, and possibly since the inception of this world, more than a few millions (at the very least) would have suffered through and overcome it. If the solution did not originate in this planet, maybe the Fae or Fel realm held some answers. Nonetheless, this wasn't Guy's intention to begin with. He didn't need the boy cured.

However, Guy held his tongue. After all, it wasn't his place to speak. He simply gazed at Revian encouragingly.

"You don't mean to say-" Revian blurted out as his sight alternated between Wei Zao and Guy. "No..." he blurted out in disbelief.

"It is trivial, though quite expensive," Wei Zao expressed while nodding his head in thought. "It will disperse your core though, so you will have to start from scratch. It effectively refreshes your progress."

"How expensive?" Guy probed, should his Sect Member require whatever solution Wei Zao's power had concocted, he had to be sure that the Sect could afford it.

Wei Zao pondered on it for a while before saying "Well... I could call in a few favours-"

"That won't be necessary," Revian interjected. His expression rang of utter certainty - his choice was without a single ounce of doubt.

"There are cheaper ways, though the chance of success-"

"Sorry to interrupt you, Teacher Way," Revian interjected again but with a respectful bow to accentuate his apology. "It isn't the cost. Rather, I don't wish to be 'cured', as there isn't anything wrong with me."

"Are you serious?" Wei Zao's face contorted with confusion. "Your core consistently leaks mana, and yet you claim that there is nothing wrong with you?"

"If there WAS something wrong with me, I wouldn't have successfully advanced into the Foundation Establishment realm," Revian countered, his logic clear even if it defied Wei Zao's comprehension.

"Well," Wei Zao sputtered, clearly had no response to that. "Crazier things have happened, I guess. So Guy, if it isn't to heal this kid, what's the favour?"

"He needs a teacher," Guy answered.

"Are you not one?" Wei Zao said with a mirthful snort.

"Not the kind he needs, actually," Guy corrected. "There are many fields I am lacking in, but none are so blatant as the field of combat. You see, I cannot fight. At. All."

Wei Zao's jaw dropped, his shock a stark contrast to his usual flippancy. "How have you gotten around without raising arms!" The question burst from him, tinged with both disbelief and a hint of judgment.

"By walking on eggshells, that's how," Guy quipped, a self-deprecating grin playing on his lips. "So, what do you think?"

Wei Zao tilted his head. His gaze, usually non-chalant, now scrutinized Revian with a laser-like intensity. Unease rippled through the boy as he felt himself laid bare with his secrets being examined under a microscope he didn't comprehend.

"You're already practising something, do you wish to continue with that?" Wei Zao finally asked, his voice rough with the effort of containing his frustration.

"I don't think that's right..." Revian said in a low voice. "Mage Shay-Hade was the one who taught me that Marital Art. It's not right for someone to to continue from where he left things off."

Wei Zao sighed, a mix of exasperation and empathy escaping him. "So what do you want?" His tone was blunt, laced with the urgency of a man grasping at straws.

"I mean..." Revian mumbled. His expression betrayed his thoughts: 'Why is this man asking me such questions? Shouldn't he be able to make the judgement call?'

Guy stepped in, sensing the tension spiraling out of control.  He'd been right; as awkward as this was, it was far better to pull out now than push Wei Zao further. "Sorry about that. Please forget I asked."

"No, no!" Wei Zao interjected, a manic energy surging through him.  "Can't a man ask questions? Look, kid, you want to learn how to fight, is that it? I can teach you."

"Don't fret over it, it was just a favor–" Guy tried to smooth things over.

Wei Zao cut him off, his usual mirth replaced by an almost painful earnestness. "Oh man, you really know how to bruise a man's ego. Guy, can I talk to you aside for a minute?"

As they stepped away, Guy noticed a subtle tremble in Wei Zao's hands. It wasn't his usual bravado; this desperation was raw and untamed. Wei Zao's voice lowered to a hoarse whisper, "What the hell? I thought you wanted this favor?!"

Guy laughed helplessly and said, "I did, but it's evident that its far too much trouble for you. I don't want a favour to turn into a burden."

"Is it because you think I am incapable?" Wei Zao snapped, his voice cracking slightly. He couldn't hide the panic rising within him.

"Who said anything about-" Right at that moment, something clicked for Guy.

"I can be of use too!" Wei Zao rasped with a loud whisper. "Just give me a chance, okay?"

His expression betrayed desparation. Upon seeing this, Guy unwittingly took a step back. 'Was this what I felt in the beginning?'

The certainty that Guy felt when he broached this topic was now starting to make sense. Wei Zao was desparate to prove himself - to prove that he was useful. But why? And where did this sudden inferiority complex stem from?

Guy looked at Wei Zao while in deep thought. "A chance to do what?" Guy probed. "I don't need you to prove yourself to me. The fact that you've come here and are willing to assist is enough."

Wei Zao shook his head violently, his voice barely a whisper. "You don't understand. Saying that just makes me feel worse! I am not a burden, Guy, I promise!"

His words hung in the air, heavy with unspoken anxieties. The question lingered - did Wei Zao believe Guy would abandon him if he found him lacking? 

Guy slowly placed his hand on Wei Zao's shoulder and gave an empathetic nod. This emotional state Wei Zao was in required a thorough analysis, and wasn't something he could squeeze out of the man in just a single interaction. However, if the man was eager to take on the charge of teaching Revian proper and varied combat, he wasn't going to stop him.

"Sure, I believe you," Guy said with a thin smile.

"Look Guy, I know that even since I've come here (to this world) I've relied heavily on the library in my soul to smoothen my path for me. I get it, I'm a fraud! But please, I want to prove myself. This isn't just for you, but for me as well. I want to prove that I am more than just the system. Do you know, my library came up with nothing with regards to a combat style that would best suit him?"

"So what do you intend to do?" Guy followed up.

Of course, Wei Zao had no idea. His entire body language basically screamed as much. "Let me have this, Guy, please..."

Guy was stumped. It was unnerving how the tables had turned so suddenly. What had initially been him asking Wei Zao for a favour had suddenly turned around, with the man practically begging for Guy to give him the opportunity.

At this moment, though, Guy did not have much time to think about the dynamics of the situation. He'd more or less secured what he wanted. Even if Wei Zao didn't seem confident enough for the task, he was still better than nothing, which was basically what Revian was working with at the moment.

"Alright, I will take your word," Guy hummed. He turned and approached Revian, "Teacher Way here will be tutoring you personally."

"Him?" Revian said instinctively. Guy flinched a bit as he felt Wei Zao descend deeper into a pit of inferiority.

"Do not doubt his skills, Revian. He is the only mage below his thirties to hold three 1-star professional certifications," Guy assuaged.

Revian hummed and bowed deeply in Wei Zao's direction, "I will be in your care, Teacher Way."

"Off you go, now," Guy quickly shooed the boy before another slip-of-the-tongue made things worse.

"I'll do a good job," Wei Zao affirmed, though again, his body language spoke otherwise. Guy wanted to have a heart-to-heart with the man about his current state of mind, but it was at that moment that both of them heard their students stirring from within.

"I guess its time for those two to face the music," Guy declared with a sigh.

"What's the plan?" Wei Zao asked while stretching his neck. "Good cop-bad cop?"

"Bad cop-worse cop," Guy responded with a tinge of agression in his voice. Wei Zao visibly shuddered as a cold sweat started to drip down his back. Guy could be scary if he wanted to.

___

Wei Zao scratched his head as he tried to observe Revian for the n-th time. He'd taken on the task of training the boy, but for the life of him, he just couldn't come up with anything!

He'd spent the entire night and pretty much the whole morning trying to formulate a study plan - a definite attack strategy - but none found perch. Once again, he realised how much of a slave he had become of the darned system/library/cheat/golden-finger (call it what you will). If anything. it was a poisoned chalice.

"So... Umm..." He vocalised as he noticed the boy before him shift uncomfortably.

"Why don't we start with what you already know," Wei Zao decided. "Come at me with everything you've got. Do not hold back."

He lowered his centre of mass and readied himself. Revian, though taken aback at first at the sudden rise in pace, adapted quickly and lowered himself into a ready stance.

Seconds passed, neither side moved. But this wasn't an actual combat, it was purely a trade of pointers. Thus, Revian did not waste another second and made his move. In three leaps he had covered the distance, and his fist had already reached an inch away from Wei Zao's face.

But contact wasn't made, as Wei Zao deftly dodged the punch in the last minute. With lightning precision, he grabbed Revian's arm and adjusted it with minute movements, "You are wasting your energy with these inefficient flourishes. When fighting against people your own level, it may not be so significant. But when fighting those at a higher realm, these flourishes are magnified and become openings."

Revian was astonished at the incisiveness with with Wei Zao caught the minute errors. He nodded hurriedly, created distance and tried the same attack again. Wei Zao revealed a satisfied smile as he made a singular adjustment, "You pick things up quickly. Good. Now one last time, without any errors."

The drill moved ahead after Revian perfected the simple jab.

"The roundhouse is akin to closing your eyes when aiming with a bow. Either drop it from your arsenal or use it as a feint to set up another combination..."

"Do not dodge so fervently. There is some merit in bodying damage if it is bearable. Contact breaks momentum and can sometime throw the attacker off their rhythm. Try to take control of the exchange by disrupting your opponent in this way..."

One after another, Wei Zao rattled off pointers and adjusted Revian's techniques. Like that, hours passed, until the boy was turned into a heaving mess.

"I think that is sufficient for today," Wei Zao declared with a wry smile. "We don't want to over do it."

"So you're the one who stole my student?!" A heavy-set and deep voice cut in. Wei Zao turned towards the source and was shocked to see tall, muscular, and dark-skinned man walking up to him. "Although I did not take him on at a personal level, I have a vested interest in his growth as his first combat instructore. I cannot, in good conscience, have all the progress I've instilled into him be minced and rinsed down the drain by another upstart."

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-428:}[next >]
