@document.meta
title: Chapter 451 - Break it Down
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-06-02T01:14:15+0400
updated: 2024-06-24T22:51:27+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Gram was drawn out of his stupor by a light shake from Kano. And upon regaining clarity, his face twitched with an awkward smile.

"What did you just do back there, kid?" Gram asked in confusion. "I just... Wow... Okay, I think I have to sit down for a little bit."

Gram walked over to a chair and plopped down inelegantly while massaging his forehead.

"Umm... Did I do something wrong?" Kano probed.

"I don't know if 'wrong' is the correct word to describe what just happened," Gram mumbled. "Take me through what that whole verbal gymnastic was all about."

"Well... Back home, I read a few books that talked about a kind of literary art that tries to add meaning to text beyond just what is written," Kano explained. He noticed Gram's confused expression and tried to elaborate. "Poetry is like a special way of using words to tell a story or share feelings. Poems can be about anything you love, like nature, friends, or even your favorite toy. They use beautiful words to paint pictures in your mind and sometimes make you feel happy, sad, or excited."

"It is kind of like a song, but without the music," Kano summarised.

"So that was poetry?" Gram half-questioned and half-highlighted in understanding.

"Not completely, I guess. As I said, I felt that the ballad was far too inefficient. We're wasting word when we could be using it to express more about what was going on," Kano reasoned. "Sometimes, you don't have to say that someone is sad. Saying that the world was dull can carry the same meaning, but with more depth in it."

"That's it!" Gram exclaimed. "This! This was what I was looking for this entire time. Word alone have a limit to what they can convey, BUT with these... these..."

"Literary devices," Kano contributed.

Gram snapped his finger and continued, "I remember that! Boy, I want you to teach me everything there is to know about literary devices."

Kano was thrown off by Gram's sudden burst of vigour and forcefulness. "Okay... But what about the song. Was it okay?"

"Okay? Are you kidding? It was transcendental! And I am not using that world lightly."

Gram thought back to the trance-like state he'd entered following Kano's recitation of his rendition of the age-old ballad - "Morg the Meek".

A dwarven ballad sung without any magical augmentations was just that, a ballad. It didn't evoke much in the listener, except of course if the singer is truly invested in the ballad and manages to invest themself in their performance. Those with a higher level of perceptivity, like Empaths, can maybe feel glimpses from these ballads at best. That was the limit.

However, Kano's rendition was different. It evoked much more than just the regular swift glimpses of images flashing past Gram's vision. The scenes were far more vivid and lasted for a marginally longer time-frame.

He could actually feel the tense emotions Morg went through as he was forced to hide under the very nose of a dragon. Hoping that the creature's sensitive senses and mana sense wouldn't capture him. The stress he must have gone through as he actively hid his presence, making nary a sound. And he also went through the tsunami of emotions Morg went through when the dragon finally left, allowing him to escape a year-long imprisonment.

'And this was without mana or any magic!' Gram's gaze grew more reverent and ecstatic as he looked towards Kano once again.

'What if he transcribes this into Dwarven Scripture!' Gram started to visibly vibrate with excitement.

'What if he enchants weapons and armours with this!' At this point, his emotions couldn't be contained any longer, and a scary smile started to crack his face. It was scary because it was unusual. It had been years since Elder Bolin had truly smiled, and his facial muscles had forgotten the exact combination of movements that were necessary to express that emotion.

"So," Gram said as he tried to contain himself. "I want to hear your opinion on 'Druig the Lucky'..."

___

Gram urged Kano to cover the technique he called "literary devices" when it was his time to learn, but surprisingly, the boy was vehement in his denial. "We have to finish learning the letters. We have to learn how to construct words, then sentences-"

"That will take ages!" Gram exclaimed. "Why can't we start now?"

"Umm, they kind of go hand in hand," Kano murmured while scratching the back of his head in confusion.

"How come? I don't believe the theory will require writing or reading," Gram argued.

"How will you take notes? It's... a lot of content to cover," Kano reasoned with a bitter smile. To that, Gram let out a proud snort and while raising his nose he said, "Memorising is trivial."

He then tapped the side of his head aggressively and added, "This mind is like a steel trap!"

"Okay... If you're sure..." Kano contemplated on where to begin. "I guess we can start with similes, metaphors and hyperboles."

Gram leaned forward with an intrigued glint in his eyes.

"A simile is a literary device that compares two things," Kano explained. "The two things are often joined with the word 'as' or 'like'"

The boy noticed Gram's confusion and elaborated with an example, "The man's face turned as pale as ash."

"You could also say, 'lady's eyes were as blue as sapphire gems.'" He added

As Gram hummed in affirmation, Kano explained its purpose, "Usually, since it is a method of comparison, it becomes easier for the audience to imagine the instance. Which in turn splashes the image instantaneously in their minds."

"That makes sense," Gram expressed with an impatient growl. "Now what is a metaphor?"

Kano wore a apprehensive frown, but decided to entertain Gram's impatience. "A metaphor is like a simile but without the use of 'as' or 'like' to bridge the gap between the subjective and the comparison. It is used when you want to place emphasis on something. An example of a metaphor, by borrowing an earlier example, would be 'The lady's eyes were sapphires, blue and brilliant."

"But eye's aren't really sapphires," Gram expressed with visible discomfort in his voice. "That's a lie."

"The purpose isn't to deceive but to make it easier to perceive," Kano orated in a way that was reminiscent of a child parroting an adults words. Gram hypothesised that the clever rhyming play on words was probably another one of the gems the kid's father bestowed on him.

"Metaphors draw the attention to the subject while making it easier to imagine," Kano continued. "While simile's main purpose is to make it easier to imagine. So, by following this pattern, a hyperbole's sole purpose is to place emphasis."

Kano scratched his chin as he said, "I am so hungry, I could eat a Goonie!"

"You can't possibly eat a Goonie-" Looking at Elder Bolin's expression, he immediately retraced his words, "I can't possibly eat an entire Goonie. So it places emphasis on my feeling of hunger. I am just THAT hungry."

"What use is there to eat a Goonie? It is a waste of a perfectly capable beast of burden," Gram reprimanded.

"I-It's not like I am going to eat a Goonie-" He sighed and retried, "A hyperbole isn't supposed to be real, it is a method to place emphasis."

Gram's brows furrowed slightly as digested Kano's lesson. Minutes passed like that, leaving the kid worried that he had accidentally offended Elder Bolin again. But after a good ten minutes, the Elder shifted in his seat and said, "Smiles, metaphors and hyperboles - they seem like elaborate ways to tell lies! That is not the Dwarven way..."

"Like I said, they may sound like lies. But they aren't. They are methods to bring colour and vibrance to the truth," Kano corrected.

"Embellishments," Gram summarised with visible disdain. "You may phrase them any way that you want, but the fact remains that they are lies."

Kano grew exasperated by Elder Bolin's unwavering stubbornness.

"They don't detract from the story," Kano argued. "They just add flavour to it."

"Addition is still deviation," Elder Bolin corrected.

Kano's face contorted with anger, and for the first time, the boy felt true irritation at someone. With a throw of his hands, he asked, "Did adding these literary devices in the ballads detract from their story?"

Gram was about to answer in the negative, but he realised that the boy's words were true. After a short internal debate, Gram suppressed his aversion to deceit in storytelling. "Alright, let us move on."

"Those three are the basic three," Kano continued. "Next, we have alliteration, repetition and assonance. Allusion and allegory. Irony and satire. Foreshadowing and flashback. Oxymorons, paradoxes and juxutaposition. Personification. Pun and onomatopoeia. Imagery and symbolism..."

Kano started to count down on his fingers as he recollected the list from memory. Each new word came as another nail in Gram's coffin, as the man visible shrunk (even more so compared to his dwarven stature).

"And these all are... important?" Gram probed.

"There're a few more that I can't seem to remember off the top of my head. But yes, they each serve a different and unique purpose," Kano answered.

Gram swallowed an empty mouthful, while dabbing his forehead of sweat. "W-Well, let us move on," he said, but this time with a lot less confidence.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-452:}[next >]
