@document.meta
title: Chapter 418 - Meet the Bruins
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-03T12:00:05+0400
updated: 2024-02-03T17:07:19+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

After the debacle earlier, Kam decided that the day had gone on for long enough. He hurriedly shepherded Kano towards his home, not allowing the boy to linger and interact with another individual, given how the recent interactions with people had turned out. Kam didn't realise this explicitly, but he certainly had an inkling of just how destabilising the boy's presence was. Although unintentionally, the kid was toeing the line of what could be considered acceptable in dwarven culture. He hadn't done anything expressly egregious just yet, but Kam could feel that in any given moment that domino would inevitably fall and result in something that they could not recover from (and since Kam was Kano's responsible party it would be his neck on the chopping block).

Therefore, it was better to retreat into familiar territory and bring the boy upto speed about the do's and do not's of society. Of course, something else Kam was worrying about was determining the most appropriate way to break the news of this adoption to his wife. He was certain that she would either be overjoyed or infuriated, which more or less illustrated the entire spectrum of possible responses that could be expected. Of course there could also be a neutral non-chalance, which would be optimal, but this wasn't a fantasy world where women could understand the way a man's mind worked.

"Do we have to walk far?" Kano asked from beside Kam while huffing and puffing loudly.

Kam slapped his forehead and said, "I forgot that you haven't cultivated one bit. My Goonie's tied up back at my place."

"What's a Goonie?" Kam inquired.

"It's a beast of burden. It is also used for long distance travel. It is hardy and stubborn, and lives for a very long time," Kam explained. He paused and pointed at a creature crossing their path with lazy yet hefty steps.

Kano observed the creature that had a huge body like a giant turtle but with an appearance that matched a hairy rhino. But upon closer inspection Kano felt that it was somewhat like an engorged boar. It had two large canines extending out of its bottom jaw from each side of its snout, but they looked closer to curving horns. Its skin that was bumpy and and rough as though it were made of rocks. And boy was it large. Harnasses made of leather and animal hide covered its body, suspending loads that Kano feared even the strongest person he knew back on Gaea would struggle to lift. Up front, a dwarf pulled the creature along and the beast followed irritatedly (which Kano realised was its default state since it radiate an aura of reluctant acceptance) while swinging its short tail back and forth.

"They aren't fast movers, but they endure," Kam said. "That's what matters in the long run, anyways."

Kam then immediately pulled Kano along before the boy pulled something crazy again. He raised the kid over his shoulders and started to run. "I'm faster on foot, we'll be home in no time!"

And true to his word, within a few minutes, Kano was dismounted and placed on the ground.

"Now, I will go in first. In a few minutes, I am going to smooth things over with my wife first. Then, when I give you the all clear signal come on in. Do not, under any circumstance-"

"Kam?" A woman's voice called out from behind the duo. Kam froze in place and slowly turned his head to the source, letting out a loud gulp while doing so.

"D-Dodi, w-what are you doing out here?" Kam asked while trying his hardest to suppress the chattering of his teeth. He then immediately positioned himself in front of Kano. 

"Had to buy some groceries. We have to celebrate your first successful solo hunt, don't we?" Dodi, the female dwarf expressed while patting the large Goonie by her side.

"Of c-course," Kam said while dabbing his forehead.

"You're acting strangely, Kam. What's going on?" The woman followed up.

"N-Nothing!"

The woman let out a light chuckle and said, "Now I KNOW that something's up. Why're you so scared and cagey? And what are you hiding? Did you find out that you had an illegitimate child or something?"

While Kam sputtered, the woman strolled around and laid her eyes on Kano. Almost instinctively, her eyes darted towards the sweating man and warped quickly with unfettered anger.

"KAM!"

"I-I can expla-"

Dodi rushed into the house without warning, and within seconds she was out with a large cleaver.

"D-Dodi wait, I think there's misunderstand-"

"I understand perfectly well. You bastard, couldn't keep it in your pants could you?" She snapped while rushing towards the man with the cleaver above her head. Kam let out a sigh and grabbed her arm, twirled her, and pulled her into a back hug.

"Calm down, dear," he said in a low rumbling voice into her ears.

The woman's face turned a tinge of red and her tenseness loosened.

"Are you calm?" Kam asked.

"I am..." Dodi mumbled.

Kam released the woman and declared, "Let us talk inside. I do not want to remain in my armour any longer."

____

"I'm sorry," Dodi said with her head hanging low.

"How could you think that I could ever cheat on you?" Kam asked in disbelief.

"I trust you, I do!" Dodi explained quickly. "It's just... a lot of my friends keep complaining about how their husbands... let themselves go while out on their Initiation. I guess I let their words affect me. I'm sorry."

The conversation continued as Kam explained the circumstances regarding Kano's adoption, and thankfully, Dodi didn't seem to mind. In fact, she was rather overjoyed.

"The poor boy is stranded, and without a place to call home. The least I can do is extend the comfort of a roof over his head and a filled belly while he figures out a way back," Dodi stated while patting Kano's hand. "Don't worry. Something will definitely work out."

Kano revealed a sad smile as he was forced to experience the pitying looks of Kam and his wife Dodi. 

"Well, let us not waste anymore time. Dinner will be ready very soon, so fresh up!" She commanded while leaping off her chair and gliding into the kitchen.

___

Kam's home, like most others in the city, was built of stone. But although the materials were cold and detached, the aura within the household was warm and welcoming. The reason for that was due to the many statues, murals and etchings distributed accross the household. In every nood and corner, there was evidence of life everywhere, so much so that Kano felt like the stone walls themselves were breathing. And the place wasn't primitive either. Everything was so intricately carved and assembled that it had the same aesthetic as any modern building.

"Something catch your eye?" Dodi asked as she placed a large steaming pot of stew on the stone dining table.

"These two aren't made by the same people," Kano commented while pointing at one painting by the dining room wall and another in the living room ceiling.

"The one here is by me, the one up front is by Kam," Dodi explained. "How did you know?"

"The one here tries to be something that it isn't," Kano commented.

"Very astute," Dodi commended with an impressed look. "I was trying to match Kam's strokes. I hate non-uniformity."

Kano observed Dodi very carefully. The woman was about his height, and looked a lot like a small teenager. Her brunette hair was very long, braided and folded twice to match her height.

"But you don't like Kam's handiwork," Kano stated bluntly. "You think you can do better, but you cannot bring up the courage to tell him so."

"What?" Dodi sputtered.

"Is that true?" Kam asked from the entry into the room. His hair was damp, which he dabbed with the towel hanging over his shoulder.

"K-Kam-"

"The boy's astute," Kam expressed while taking a seat on the dining table. "So tell me, do you really not like my craftsmanship?"

Dodi gave Kano an accusatory look, but the boy had already taken a seat and dug into the stew with great vigour.

"My goodness! Its so delicious!" Kano exclaimed. "Thank you so much for the food, Miss Bruin."

"He doesn't hold any ill intentions," Kam explained. "He just speaks bluntly. Do not fault him for that. So tell me, wife. Do you hate my handiwork so much?"

"It's not that I hate it," Dodi said with a sigh. She approached Kam and served him and herself before taking a seat by the table.

"Its just... sometimes I feel like you lose interest quickly and just rush to finish it as soon as possible."

"That is true," Kam affirmed while gulping down the stew. "Do we not have any beer?"

"The keg's tapped out. We need to buy a new one," Dodi responded.

"Damn. I should have bought one on the way back," Kam mumbled disappointedly. "Well, this is your house as much as it is mine. Just scrap whatever you don't like and redo it to your preference."

"But this has been in your family for generations!" Dodi exclaimed. "I coudln't possibly-"

"The land is all that's been in my family. My grandpa rebuilt this house after it got destroyed in the Great War," Kam corrected. "And he did a shoddy work of it too. We have to fix the piping in this place every five years. Might as well destroy the whole thing and rebuild it the way we want."

"That's going to be expensive," Dodi commented.

"I think I'm getting a hang of hunting," Kam answered. "I could take on a few contracts now-"

"That's too dangerous!"

Kam squeezed his wife's cheek before giving her a quick peck on her lips. "Your mother was hell-bent against having you marry me - an orphan. But I promised her that I would keep you happier than they ever could."

"That definitely didn't endear her towards you," Dodi said with a chuckle.

"But she was never the one I wanted to assure," Kam responded.

"My father didn't tarry any longer before assenting to our union," Dodi commented.

"And upon my honour, I will stick to my promise," Kam declared.

The warm scene was interrupted with a loud burp. The duo looked towards Kano who was peach red with embarrassment.

"My father always said, 'Why fart and waste it, when you can burp and taste it!'" Kam blurted out with a loud bellow. His wife shook her head and joined in, before Kano broke down into a fit of laughter.

Once everyone calmed down, Dodi raised a point, "So, do we register Kano to the local school?"

"Right! But do you think they will accept a new entry midway through the season?"

"We-"

The conversation was interrupted by a series of agitated knocks.

"Who could be at this time?" Dodi asked annoyedly. And her question was immediately answered by the man beyond the door.

"It's Gram Bolin," a gruff voice spoke up.

Dodi froze in shock and her body shivered in fear. Kam choked on his food and looked towards the door as though a ghost were standing there.

"I have declared my presence, and since everyone is decent, I will be entering," Elder Bolin declared before unlocking the door from outside and pushing through.

____

{:$/tgt/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/tgt/index:}[index] - {:$/tgt/volume-6/chapter-419:}[next >]
