@document.meta
title: Chapter 458 - Girls Week Out
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-06-02T01:14:15+0400
updated: 2024-07-28T14:36:49+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Shuri had to physically hold herself back from reading the very book she'd porsletysed about to Marie. It was an absolute page-turner, and with each page turned the gears of her mind turned at a feverish pace. For most, it was a good thing. But for Shuri in particular, this was the absolute worst outcome. After all, her mind was like a sticky fly trap. Once an idea or thought snuck its way in there, it wouldn't leave until it was taken till fruition.

The reason why she had to physically hold herself back was because her inspiration and motivation was sneaking into the project work she was undertaking with her team.

"This isn't part of the project scope!" Tes exclaimed in frustration. "This will require a complete rework of the transient memory architecture. And we will have to somehow quadruple the number of cores being used to facilitate so many parallel computations!"

Shuri was about to bark back, but the boy's words struck a chord. She took a second look at the new design she'd presented to the team and took two steps back in shock.

"Umm... This..."

"I don't intend to perform such high-dimensional matrix operations, Shuri," Marie spoke up. Looking at her, Shuri noticed that the girl had a salacious smile on her face. She waved the book discreetly, taunting Shuri.

"Y-You're right," Shuri said through her teeth. "I was working on the possible improvements for a version 2-"

"We haven't even finished version 0!" Tes interjected angrily. He raised a shaking finger and waved it all over, gesturing at the sprawling diagram on the board, "Weren't you the one haranguing all of us about working within the scope of the project. You harped on me for hours just because I decided to increase the verbosity of the compiler!"

"That's because its unnecessary. Why do we need to hold the programmer's hand. If they make a mistake, they can figure it out based on the error message alone," Shuri argued.

"It was just an additional day of work!" Tes argued back. "THIS! Will take months, if not a year."

"I was just proposing an idea-"

"I did the same-"

"GUYS!" Marie cut it. "We are doing exactly what we wish to avoid - wasting valuable time! Shuri, Tes is right here. Whatever this... is, it is admittedly excessive and well beyond the project scope. Its so far detached we can't even ice it."

"I know, I know," Shuri said while waving away the blame and hurriedly erasing her designs. "I apologise."

Marie drilled her gaze into Tes, whose smirk died immediately after. "Now can we get back to the planning session?"

And thus, the two hour excruciating back-and-forth continued.

___

"What the hell was THAT all about?" Marie asked Shuri as the group dispersed from the meeting room.

Shuri let out a tired breath before collapsed onto her chair. "Its frustrating, that's what! Thank goodness you took that cursed book away from me."

Marie inched closer and gently rubbed Shuri's hair. It was coarse, yet comfortable to the touch.

"These designs just keep running through my mind. I don't have dreams anymore, just abstract line drawings of all this mess," she continued.

"You could just log them-"

Shuri gave her a blank stare before pulling out stacks of parchment from under the table and tossing them in front of her.

"My hands itch to make these into reality," Shuri expressed in defeat.

"You can do this in your spare time, no?" Marie offered, though she knew it was a wasted suggestion. Shuri had definitely thought of this before.

"Its poisonous," Shuri said, half afraid and half frustrated. "You just saw its effects."

"You need to learn to compartmentalise," Marie declared confidently, only to recieve an angry glare in return.

"It has become harder to do so," Shuri explained. "Ever since I've started treatment, it has become harder to suppress my thoughts and actions. When before, control was natural, it has become an active struggle to fight against my conscience and thoughts."

"Side-effects?" Marie posited.

"Not according to Senior Sister Jean," Shuri responded with a light shake of her head. "I guess this is just me. Whatever I was, wasn't me. And now, I'm me again. To be honest, I like this feeling a lot. Being able to speak my mind, being able to do what I want, dress how I want, live how I want... It's intoxicating."

Marie let out a satisfied smile seeing Shuri with a fulfilled expression on her face.

"This week's sprint has be unallocated," Shuri stated before looking at Marie with an expectant gaze. "Care to make a trip to Radiant City?"

"Now?"

"I could use a distraction, and so could you!" Shuri urged.

"Wouldn't the team be miffed with your absence?" Marie probed.

"They would be elated, actually. They think I can't hear their grumbles, but they forget that my core has nearly been restored," Shuri dismissed.

"So... it's a date?" Marie expressed while trying hard to suppress the embarrassment and excitement in her voice.

"I mean... if visiting the library, perusing the markets for inspiration, and purchasing some rare materials a date then... Sure."

Marie's lips twitched as Shuri started to mentally make an itinerary.

___

Just as Jean completed Shuri's weekly checkup, "I will be going out to Radiant City the coming week."

With a quirked brow, Jean asked, "Eh! Why?"

"Umm, is there a problem?" Shuri probed.

"I am not asking as your attending physician, but as your friend," Jean responded with a chuckle.

"It was supposed to be a date," the answer came from the entrance to the check-up room, where Marie stood leaning against the door frame. "But turns out, its just a work trip."

"That sounds about right," Jean murmured.

"What's that supposed to mean?!" Shuri snapped in annoyance.

"Well... I can't imagine you going out on a pleasure trip, you know?" Jean explained.

"That's rich coming from you. I don't think you've ever taken a break for a single day since joining the Sect. Am I wrong?" Shuri retaliated with folded hands and an upset frown.

"You aren't wrong in that," Jean responded while nodding her head and leaning back againt her chair.

There was a moment of silence as the girls exchanged glances between each other, before Marie stepped forward and probed, "Is that... healthy?"

"I'm functioning perfectly, aren't I?" Jean said witha shrug.

"You're handling loss by throwing yourself into your work," Shuri said matter-of-factly, surprising the two girls. Marie mouthed for Shuri to remain quiet, while Jean's expression grew dourer by the second.

"I'm not-"

"I think what Shuri is trying to say is that I think we need to take a page from the Sect Leader's book and recollect that 'All work and no play, makes Jack a dull boy'," Marie interjected in a hurry.

"I enjoy my work, by the way," Jean responded curtly. "And I'm certain that isn't what Shuri meant."

"Yeah," Shuri affirmed. "That wasn't what I meant. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that you're still working through the loss of Josie, and quite possibly your mother who you weren't able to properly mourn for because of how your mental health deteriori-"

Marie covered Shuri's mouth with her palms and gave Jean a weak smile. She then quickly ushered Shuri out of the room and closed the door.

"I will apologise on her behalf," Marie quickly spoke up.

"There was no malice," Jean responded offhandedly. "There is no need to apologise. Now if you could please leave-"

"In that case, she isn't wrong," Marie veered in the opposite direction. "You should come with us."

"Look," she followed up immediately after. "I can attest that there is an appropriate amount of time a person needs to mourn for, beyond which it is just unhealthy. People die, you move on. You've lost a lot of people in your life who you hold dear. You think you've processed that life and moved on. But all you've done is compartmentalised that sorrow and shoved it behind a distraction, which is your work."

"And going out and having fun isn't just another way to distract yourself from your loss?" Jean challenged.

"Kind of," Marie evoked while stretching the syllables with a high pitch of ambivalence. "But it also is a step towards moving on and living your life. Work isn't life, its a means to an end."

"That's your perspective," Jean declared. "For me, work IS my life. The man who caused the death of the people I care about is still out there. I am not doing this for revenge, I am doing this because the longer he exists, the more he will poison this world, and the more people will die due to diseases that are totally curable."

"That isn't just YOUR problem," Marie expressed.

"But I am the only one with the ability to do something about it," Jean argued.

"Then you're going about it all wrong!" Marie reasoned vehemently. "Look at Shuri. She knows just how far ahead of the curve she is, yet she recruits the assistance of others to help her reach her goals. There is only success in collaboration, because we are optimising failure."

Noticing Jean's confusion, she expounded, "If you fail alone, only you learn. If you are in a group of five and you fail, then the other four learn along with you. By increasing the sample size of failures, you are optimising learning."

"But you're diluting efficiency," Jean countered.

"Another false assumption," Marie denied. "Each contributor and member has the potential to spawn off another idea and pathway for exploration. Efficiency grows exponentially with time."

Before Jean could retort, Marie held up her palm and said, "You're making excuses for yourself. What you're doing is no different that the life you were forced to leave when you couldn't express your emotions. You had no choice then, you do now. You WILL be coming with us and I am not taking 'no' for an answer. This will be a 'Girls Week Out'!"

Then, without giving Jean the opportunity to respond, she vamoosed.

Jean really did not have a choice, because the very next day, the two girls were outside her room and involuntarily packed up her bags and kidnapped her out of the Sect.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-459:}[next >]
