@document.meta
title: Chapter 423 - Callback
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-23T19:40:08+0400
updated: 2024-04-13T17:51:33+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"So early?!" Guy exclaimed upon hearing Markus' notification of Jo Way's arrival, or should he be calling him Wei Zao?

"Teacher Way said that he made haste for the Sect as soon as he could," Markus elaborated.

"But really, it hasn't even been a week... Did he run through the night?" Guy mumbled. He then looked through a small journal on his table and let out a groan.

"I have a one-on-one booked with Revian in a few minutes, and I cannot reschedule this," Guy expressed. He scratched his head and instructed, "Can you please handle the guests while I finish up this meeting? Try not to offend them, though. We don't want them to feel as though we are doing this to them on purpose."

"To be fair, Master, they arrived without any prior notice," Markus argued. "So even if they are to wait for hours, it shouldn't matter."

"People don't think fairly," Guy said with a snort. "Brew them some of that artisanal tea Grace harvested recently. It should offset any negativity."

Markus hummed affirmatively before exiting the room, as he did so he called out to Revian who was waiting outside, "You can go in now. Master's expecting you."

Revian entered the room with uncertain steps and anxiety etched on his face. He first bowed by the door and walked cautiously towards a chair in front of Guy's desk.

"We've had to push this meeting four times now," Guy said with a wry smile. "Sorry about that-"

"No, not at all!" Revian interjected while waving his hands. "Of course, given the circumstances, I understand the difficult position you've been placed in. I can't possibly expect Sect Leader Larks to maintain the same level of availability as before."

"It sucks, doesn't it?" Guy reminisced. "The world never allows you a moment of calm."

"Well it has a way of making you feel useless," Revian muttered in affirmation.

"Now that's not something the world can do," Guy retorted while letting out a bellowing laugh. "Inadequacy is felt from within and is caused from within. So tell me, why do you feel useless?"

"It's actually to do with the efforts everyone is putting in trying to bring Kano and Dora back," Revian quickly explained. "I try to contribute, but I can't seem to find perch anywhere. You see, I can't cast spells, so the research task force Senior Brother Markus has set up has no place for me. Senior Sister Jean is currently fully occupied with Senior Sister Shuri's transition. I do not know medicine so I can't help her either. Senior Sister Marie secludes herself, and she is still in mourning so I don't wish to disturb her. Matron Reva is leading the task force to fix the meadow once again and to also fix the collapse the mana core farm underneath has experienced. I can help out here, but it's barely anything. I'm either moving rocks or excavating dirt and transporting it from one place to another."

Revian let his outburst settle before finally saying, "I feel like I'm not accomplishing anything, you know?"

"What about your training with Mage Shay-Hade and Mage Maddi?" Guy asked.

"That's kind of stalled. Mage Maddi has shifted her full attention to training Kili. And Mage Shay-Hade has grouped me in with the rest of the cohort. To that end, the lesson content tends to skew in favour of a hybrid, magic and physical combat combined track. Since I cannot perform magic, half the time I'm just going through the already-learned motions. I mean, you can only repeat a set of Forms before the laws of diminishing returns apply," Revian explained. "And to be fair, I cannot force either of them to place their full attention on me since they are only participating as part of a favour."

"So, your current trouble is that you are lacking someone who can teach you combat?" Guy summarised. He tapped his fingers rhythmically over his wooden desk while pondering over this matter. Though at the back of his mind, the thought of the still-waiting Wei Zao nibbled at him. He admonished himself internally for not placing his full attention on the sect member before him who needed him. But Guy couldn't stop his mind from deviating. After all, he would be meeting his counterpart from another world. And unlike before, now, both sides were informed of the other's condition.

Suddenly, Guy realised that he had let the silence extend for an uncomfortably long time frame. But he noticed that Revian was also a bit checked out. Guy coughed to draw the boy's attention before saying, "I think your struggles are twofold, but as you are going through them at the same time, you are merging them into one because you think they are correlated. The answer becomes evident when you decouple the two instances."

Guy raised his index finger and said, "For the matter of being useful. Your assistance in getting the meadow back to its original state - or restoring it to a better state - is sufficient. You cannot offer more than you have, and you aren't someone to shortchange when assisting. In the end, that is enough. If you feel that you aren't contributing enough, bother Grace into giving you more tasks, or take charge of sub-tasks and coordinate them more thoroughly. As a Foundation Establishment realm mage here, you are encouraged to take on more responsibilities!"

He then raised his second digit and continued, "As for your stalled progress, it has nothing to do with your thoughts of inadequacy, since it isn't your fault to begin with. The fault, in fact, lies with me because I failed to provide you with a stable learning platform."

Before Revian could wave his hand in vehement denial, Guy's eyes widened as an epiphany struck him like a freight train. His fists hit his table so hard that the wood shattered into an uncountable number of splinters. He looked at Revian with a manic smile that overflowed with excitement. "I think we have a solution to your problem. Follow me!"

He jolted up from his seat and walked briskly towards the door while enthusiastically waving for Revian to follow him.

"You won't believe what has just fallen into our laps, Revian," he said as they beelined towards the salon. Revian returned a confused look but followed Guy closely. However, along the way, they were distracted by a growing number of members crowding in the direction of the combat arena. It was distracting because he hadn't seen such intrigued and excited expressions on their faces since Kano and Dora's disappearance.

He was stuck between continuing in the direction of the salon to meet Wei Zao, or following his Sect's members and checking out what the commotion was all about.

"Well... They've waited for this long, a few minutes more won't hurt," Guy decided before following the herd. To his surprise, the herd carried him to his original target, as Wei Zao stood by the combat arena with his palm massaging his forehead.

"Wei- I mean, Teacher Way!" Guy greeted while approaching the man. The man, in turn, jolted and looked right at Guy. A flash of gratitude and serenity lit his pupils before they mellowed out with happiness. The man bounded in a split second and pulled Guy into an embrace.

"Thank goodness you're here!" Wei Zao said in almost a whisper. His voice shuddered audibly as he spoke, as though a veritable torrent of heavy emotions were escaping through his exhale. Guy could also feel the man vibrating, just slightly. He could not read Wei Zao's mind, and he felt that they weren't close enough to discuss matters close to the heart, but if this embrace could give the man some relief, Guy was willing to offer his shoulders readily.

A few seconds later, Wei Zao detached himself from Guy while revealing a sincere smile. "Boy, am I glad to see you. It's... been a while."

"You could say that," Guy responded with a mild laugh. "You arrived sooner than I expected."

"I didn't think wasting time floundering about was proper, given what we know about... the end of the world- You know, I never thought I'd get to make a sentence with all those words and actually mean it," Wei Zao added with a self-deprecating smile.

"I guess things stopped making sense the day we died and shifted worlds," Guy agreed while patting the man's shoulder.

"Master?"

Guy turned and finally noticed the combatants squaring off in the combat arena.

"Markus?" Guy responded in shock. He looked across and noticed Gaige standing at the ready with his sword unsheathed.

"Okay, now this is giving me some serious deja vu," Guy blurted out while rubbing his forehead.

"I guess this is a callback," Guy murmured.

"My student has already raised a flag," Wei Zao affirmed. "While I am loathed to say this, I don't think he will win this one."

"This isn't a web novel, Teacher Way," Guy reminded with a snort.

"Well, let's agree to disagree," Wei Zao volleyed.

"Do not worry, Teacher Way!" Gaige yelled from across the stage. "I won't disappoint you!"

Guy sputtered but immediately schooled his expression with great difficulty. Wei Zao immediately palmed his face and let out a silent scream.

____

"Come at me with your strongest move!" Gaige challenged.

"I fully intend to," Markus answered while cracking his neck. "I must warn you, it is not going to be easy for you."

Gaige revealed a confident smirk, before positioning his blade on the ready. The two combatants exchanged steely gazes, and a silent assent was declared. The fight had begun.

But neither combatant moved, the two measured each other unwaveringly, observing for any flaws or openings.

Markus was the first to make a move, but he did not approach. He flicked his wand around with sharp and fluid movements causing countless spell circles to form around him, combining into intricate designs that mimicked the mesmerising artworks formed by a kaleidoscope. Gaige could not make sense of it but he could discern that that many spell circles in unison could not result in a simple spell.

Just as he prepared to close the distance, he saw something that caused his jaw to drop like a hammer to anvil.

The combat arena started to vibrate rapidly, and the rocks in the arena danced in conjunction. And as though the strings holding everything close to the earth were suddenly cut, everything in a two-metre radius around Markus lifted off from the ground, including the teenager.

Markus was no longer standing on the ground.

"Y-You're flying!" Gaige exclaimed. "How are you flying?!"

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-424:}[next >]

