@document.meta
title: Chapter 421 - Way Finds the Way
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-10T13:48:49+0400
updated: 2024-02-18T21:33:34+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

The travel from the Capital to his target destination - Twilight Village - took much longer than Wei Zao had anticipated. A large part of it was because he was drowning in anxiety the entire way back. In fact, within a single day of travel via caravan, he grew fed up and decided to book it the rest of the way on foot, while carrying his Student on his back.

He ignored the infrequent jeers sent his way by random bystanders, because it didn't matter in the grand scheme of things. They would all be dead eventually, when the end of the world comes.

Within the three days of continuous travel, Wei Zao had finally landed on the path that would lead him to Twilight Village.

"I think I can walk the rest of the way from here," Gaige mumbled in embarrassment. The entire journey, he'd strategically hidden his face so that no one would recognise him. He'd asked multiple times for Teacher Way to drop him, but the man was adamant towards the necessity of haste.

Luckily, it seemed that this plea had reached Teacher Way's ears as the man halted and took a moment to consider.

"I guess we are close enough to our destination," Teacher Way hummed. And then, Gaige could finally dismount.

The duo then walked in silence, but at a brisk pace that matched a speed somewhere between a sprint and a jog for a regular human being.

"The roads seem to have improved in these parts," Gaige commented as they glided seamlessly over the newly built paths that was wide enough to support two caravans to move side-by-side.

This of course, did not warrant a response from Teacher Way, who had grown increasingly silent over the past few days. Gaige could feel a palpable anxiety radiating off of the man, which was uncharacteristic as he had known him to be a pillar of confidence and assurance.

Seconds turned into minutes until the village which was to be their destination appeared over the horizon - Twilight Village.

They were welcomed by a large sign that quite literally said, "Welcome to Twilight Village - the Sun must set for a Brighter Dawn."

The text was on the foreground to a painting that captured a mountain piercing into a cloud tinted a beautiful shade of twilight crimson. It exemplified a bold use of colours and unorthodox strokes that eerily resembled finger prints.

"Quite poetic," Gaige commented, but Teacher Way walked right past the beautifully illustrated board.

The duo followed the path that took them right towards the centre of the village. Another large sign indicated that this was the public bathhouse.

"People bathe communally here?" Gaige asked in surprise. Once again, his attempt to spark a conversation was overlooked as Teacher Way approached the closest individual they could find.

It was an elderly woman who was just exiting the bathhouse with a towel wrapping her hair.

"Excuse me," Teacher Way intercepted. "Do you know a man called Guy Larks?"

The woman took a step back and scrutinised Teacher Way thoroughly.

"Who's asking?"

"Look here, do you-" Gaige instinctively moved forward irritatedly here, but Teacher Way held out his hand and took over, "I am an acquaintance from when he was working at the Radiant Academy. He is expecting me."

"If he were expecting you, then you wouldn't be asking me whether I knew him or not," the woman rebutted with a frown.

Teacher Way returned a blank gaze before reiterating, "Where can I find Guy Larks?"

"I can take you to him, if you can tell me why?" A voice answered from behind them. They knew who the speaker was before turning around, but they were still surprised to see a blind teen (about Gaige's age). Well, seeing a blind kind wasn't what surprised them, the surprise came through the fact that the child was carrying a massive tree trunk over his shoulder.

"Where can I find Guy Larks?" Teacher Way asked.

"What you're demanding, I can supply. But since I am the exclusive vendor I get to set the price," the blind teen said with a smile.

"It is evident that you aren't the only exclusive vendor," Teacher Way said while gesturing at the people forming a crowd around them. "I'm certain that there are at least twenty vendors all around me."

"They won't sell to you," the boy continued with a smile.

"You're pretty confident about that. What if I gave them an offer that they can't refuse?"

The boy let out a laugh and urged, "I'd like to see you try."

"You're quite confident for someone who's still in the Foundation Establishment realm," Teacher Way followed up while increasing the pressure within his mana domain.

"Wait!" Gaige blurted out. "Foundation Establishment realm? Him?!"

"Well, what if I could give you something in return?" Teacher Way continued, ignoring Gaige's outburst. "I can help you move past the bottleneck you're facing with the martial arts you're practising."

Teacher Way sucked in a long breath through the gap in his teeth while scratching his chin in thought. After thoroughly inspecting the blind teen, he revealed a mischevious smile and said, "If I'm not mistaken, it's the Stellar Dance - Group Size, isn't it?" 

The teen shrugged, "I don't know. Our teacher prefers to teach on a case-by-case basis with a heavy focus on the basics. As its going right now, I am pretty happy with the way things are. So, thank you for the offer but I'll pass."

"Do you have any idea who Teacher Way is?" Gaige barked. "Even the Second Princess of the Empire had to wait in line to get a one-on-one with him."

"In that case he should probably hang around people his stature. I'm just a blind refugee who got lucky, I don't deserve his attention," the blind teen responded, not flinching one bit.

As Gaige was about to step forward and teach the teen some sense, Teacher Way's hand grabbed his shoudler and held him back.

"Your Sect's Leader is Guy Larks," Teacher Way said matter-of-factly. "Please lead me to your Sect. Otherwise I will have to find passage on my own."

"That sounds to me like a threat," the blind teen emphasise with a steely edge in his voice.

"Take it as you will. A threat, or a statement-of-fact. Boy, if anything, I hope you walk away with a single lesson from this conversation," as Teacher Way spoke, the pressure around him rose marginally. So much so that the observers disperse through instinct. "If you wish to fight, try to avoid those with nothing left to lose. Because even an obvious victory can turn into a brutal loss."

The teen revealed a challenging smile and responded, "What a coincidence! I was just about to say the same thing!"

"Yohn!" A voice cut through the tense confrontation. It belonged to that of another teen. "There you are!"

"Senior Brother Markus," the blind boy, Yohn, answered. As the confrontation dispersed, so did the growing pressure.

"What are you-" The other teenager, Markus, paused and looked directly at Gaige, his gaze indicating recognition. "Gaige?"

"Umm..." Gaige mumbled awkwardly. "Have we met?"

Markus snorted before blurting out, "You don't remember, do you?"

"Remember what?"

"He's the kid that nearly beat you a few years back?" Teacher Way reminded with a knowing smile. "Now I am certain that Guy's here."

Gaige looked at Markus in disbelief, "He looks nothing like him!"

"Good food, rest and a lot of training can make a heck of a lot of difference," Teacher Way explained while walking along and ignoring the three dumbfounded teens. "And some self-confidence also goes a long way in changing your aura."

"It looks like you've grown stronger," Gaige commented good-naturedly.

"You look exactly as you were," Markus responded dismissively, causing Gaige's smile to crack.

"And Master Larks has been expecting your arrival," Markus said to Teacher Way. "Though it seems you are earlier than calculated."

"We made haste," Teacher Way answered curtly. "I would like to keep that momentum going."

"Follow me," Markus gestured while nudging Yohn to pick up the trunk that he was carrying.

"How does the lad see?" Teacher Way asked as he followed Markus through the village, towards a set of stairs that travelled up the mountain-side.

"With his eyes," Markus answered without missing a beat and without any indication of jest.

Teacher Way and Gaige both turned around at the same time and saw Yohn ascending the stairs with no trouble while carrying the tree trunk over his shoulder. The teen acknowledged them with a wave and immediately after, pulled open one of his eyelids to reveal a barren socket.

Gaige shuddered in disgust before averting his gaze.

"Those marks indicate that his eyes were removed forcefully," Teacher Way stated.

"They were."

"And yet he can see now? And by my analysis, it is without the use of his mana sense," Teacher Way added, which suprised Gaige.

"The human eyes only see a small fraction of what the world has to offer," Yohn spoke up as he overtook the group. As he passed them, he turned around and opened his empty eyes. Gaige was about to avert his gaze again, but was shocked to see two whirling balls of colours in the empty sockets. "I'll be seeing you in the Sect, then."

And with a loud, uproarious laugh, Yohn bound forward with a large leap.

____

{:$/tgt/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/tgt/index:}[index] - {:$/tgt/volume-6/chapter-422:}[next >]
