@document.meta
title: Chapter 442 - The Bad Teacher
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-05-05T14:24:43+0400
updated: 2024-07-15T00:16:08+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Elder Bolin did say that Dwarven Script was all about music. And thus music was
where Kano started his lessons.

It was a completely new ball game for him, having spent most of his life (which
was admittedly quite short) learning how to read, write and speak one language.
And now, he was essentially tasked with learning a new one altogether - the
language of music.

This was Kano's toughest challenge yet. Even more so than learning how to make
sense of the dancing letters and numbers. In fact, his pursuit of literacy
would have been near impossible had it not been for his father, Sect Leader
Larks, and his ingenious techniques. But on this planet, there was no Sect
Leader Larks. And Kano was once again forced to confront his deficiencies,
which was akin to running against a brick wall with no helmet.

"Loosen your jaws, boy!" Elder Bolin yelled angrily as Kano failed for the nth
time today.

"I'm t-t-t-t-t-t-"

"Enunciate!" The man bellowed while slamming his fist against his desk causing
it to resonate doubly.

Kano wasn't a prodigy in learning. Unsurprisingly his first bout with the
subject had ended in thorough failure. Unfortunately, his teacher wasn't a
patient man. The first failure was met with a rapid barrage of yells and
insults. This wasn't the first time Kano was subjected to insults. He was used
to it. But till now, the only insults he'd heard were either from his peers and
to his face, or by adults and in low whispers behind his back. Never had an
adult scolded him to his face.

He didn't know how to react. His mind shut down summarily. And thus, his second
attempt was also a failure - a catastrophe to be exact. And this did little to
appease the old dwarf, who bore down even harder.

The consecutive and unrelenting barrage of scolding had thoroughly shaken Kano.
And as a result, his suppressed stutter was resurrected. And boy did it come
back with a vengeance.

He could barely get past his first syllable without turning into a boy locked
in time, cursed to repeat the same sound again, and again, and again.

Kano was now on the verge of breaking into tears. With a pleading and hurt
gaze, he looked at his instructor, whose expression was sour and shrivelled
with rage. He snorted and waved his hand dismissively, "It is clear that no
advancement can be made today. Leave! We shall resume tomorrow!"

Without wasting another moment, Kano booked it and left the Elder's home
crying. He rubbed his eyes as he ran, and with some familiarity managed to find
an out-of-the-way alley and collapsed into a crouch against the wall. He
whimpered as his throat choked up with sadness. At this moment, he sorely
wished to be back with his family. He didn't want to be here anymore.

___

After he'd cried himself out, an unassailable hunger rumbled from his stomach.
One thing Kano had learned was that one must be conscious enough to bifurcate
the body's natural urges from the unnatural, higher-order urges. That is to
say, one shouldn't satiate their hunger with an unhealthy serving of sorrow.
Emotions can heighten or dampen the human body's natural cycles. Such as how
excitement alleviates drowsiness, and anger dampens the feeling of physical
pain.

This was something Matron Reva had taught him, and something he thoroughly
comprehended from experience.

"Chase your food down with your tears if you have to, but never skip your
meals. Why are you crying? Because you were wronged? Do you think crying will
somehow make the other person understand their mistakes? Because you feel sorry
for yourself? Others will only feel sorry for you when it is convenient. So why
inconvenience yourself by crying?!"

Kano stood up and dusted his trousers. He dabbed his eyes with his loose
sleeves exited the alley, and then made his way back to his housing.

___

The Bruins could sense Kano's grief through his almost mechanical behaviour, as
he went through the motions of having a regular dinner. The boy was usually a
jack-in-the-box of curiosity, filled with an onslaught of questions that could
drown a person. Yet right now, he was unusually silent.

Darvia coughed and nudged Kam, hoping he would look up from his bowl and
address what was troubling their charge. Although Kam was full of many good
qualities, observance was not one of them. He often missed cues to offer
comforting words when she was down or compliments when she tried new
hairstyles. His lack of attentiveness frustrated Darvia, yet she appreciated
his simplicity and straightforward nature, finding solace in the predictability
it brought. Above all, she trusted him completely. After all, finding someone
you could trust wholeheartedly was often harder than finding someone attuned to
your emotions.

But it gladdened her to see that her man was learning. Her third nudge
distracted him enough from his food to notice the awkward lingering atmosphere.
He looked towards his wife, and a silent conversation was exchanged between the
two... through mana transmission.

"Ask him how he feels!" Darvia advised. "Can't you see he's downhearted?"

"What am I supposed to do? He's a man, he'll work through it," Kam dismissed.

"He's still just a little boy," Darvia retorted. "Although he's about our
height, his heart isn't as hardened as ours. And at least we had people
familiar to us to go back to and vent. The poor boy is all alone and helpless
here."

Kam pulled his lips in and let out a loud sigh. His wife was right.

"So..." he started. Noticing that Kano hadn't engaged, he coughed loudly to
drag the boy out of his distracted trance. "How was your day?"

Kano exchanged looks between Kam and Darvia before saying, "I can see why you
people are af-f-fraid of Elder B-B-Bolin."

"What's wrong with you?" Darvia asked worriedly as she leapt from her seat and
inspected Kano. "Did the man beat your head in silly? Why're you talking that
way?"

"I have a c-c-c-condition," Kano answered. And through his stutter, he
explained the dressing down he received disguised in the innocent guise of a
lesson in Dwarven literacy. The response he obtained from his caretakers was
one of sympathy and acceptance.

"That is his way," Darvia said with an assuaging tone while lightly massaging
Kano's shoulder. "Do not take his words to heart."

"Elder Bolin is capable and knowledgeable," Kam interjected. "He's considered
an expert in his field, and few could match his understanding. Yet, he's a
walking contradiction. He preaches emotional restraint to his Empaths but gives
in to his own fits of anger. Frankly, his actions rarely align with his words."

"When I get stressed, it m-m-makes my stutter worse," Kano explained. "And
every time he screams it makes me shake in my boots..."

At that moment, Kam recognised the issue. The boy was stuck in a circular hell,
with no way out on his own. Kam dropped his spoon into his bowl and leaned
against his chair, letting his neck hang over the backrest.

He then exchanged another look with his wife, and this time the conversation
was truly telepathic. They understood what had to be done. But neither of the
two was looking forward to it.

___

"What is the meaning of this?!" Gram exclaimed angrily. Never in his career as
an instructor was he forced to face such an affront.

"While we understand and appreciate your passion..." Kam said with a faux
calmness in his voice. "We feel that your... passion... is negatively affecting
Kano's ability to grasp the subject."

The elder dwarf snapped his gaze furiously at Kano, who was hiding behind
Darvia, who was trying her hardest not to hide behind Kam, or better yet make a
run for it.

"How juvenile!" The man barked. "Can you not take a little bit of criticism?"

"He's just a child," Kam reasoned.

"You and Darvia were also children when I taught you, yet not once did your
parents parade into my office and question my teaching methods," Gram responded
instantaneously. His expression grew redder as rage was visibly bubbling out of
him. "This is an outrage, I tell you! Absolutely disrespectful! Your actions
today have thoroughly made me lose face."

The man grew animated as he continued, "I will have you know that my 'lacking'
teaching methods have crafted numerous mages who have made a name for
themselves, each and every single one of them just as brilliant as the last!"

"Oh, would you just drop it!" A feminine shriek thundered, causing the next
words about to escape the old dwarf's lips along with his spittle to halt and
double back.

Kam turned to face the source and was shocked to see his wife, who usually made
herself scarce in front of Elder Bolin, wearing an unwavering, confrontational
frown.

"If you throw a million darts on a board, a hundred are bound to stick!" She
spat. "How can you be so arrogant and blind to the folly of your own horrific
teaching method? If you could just, for a single moment, listen to the advice
you hammer into your Empaths and take a closer look at what your 'superb'
teaching methods have produced, you would know just how 'effective' those
methods really are!"

"Darvia! You-"

"Because of you, I had to give up my dream of becoming an adventurer!" She
yelled emphatically. Her eyes grew redder as tears of rage and sorrow bubbled
from within. "You made me feel so stupid and incapable that I couldn't even
build up the courage to pick up the battleaxe my father had forged for me at
the time of my birth!"

Her shaking finger stabbed the air towards the old man. "You took
responsibility for teaching Kano," she declared, her voice a frigid blade. "And
I, as his guardian, deem you a failure. A decent teacher would recognize their
own shortcomings. Instead, you blame Kano's struggles on his 'incapacity'. Does
that speak more to his limitations or your own incompetence?"

She then didn't spare her husband or Gram a glance as she turned and left while
dragging Kano by his arm.

"Come, Kam! There are plenty of teachers for Kano in the city. And if not in
this city!"

Kam caught himself with his jaw dropped in awe. He looked at the older dwarf,
who was vibrating taut like a bladder ready to burst. He immediately offered
words of apology before rushing out of the man's home and following his wife.

Gram was left to his own devices, his mind running rampant with rage.

"They DARE!"

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-443:}[next >]


