@document.meta
title: Chapter 420 - Beating Heart
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-10T13:48:49+0400
updated: 2024-02-11T23:04:38+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kano did not sleep that night. His mind teetered between fear, anxiety and sadness, and made it difficult for slumber's sweet embrace to envelope him. Much had happened in a short duration that had overturned his life. And it annoyed him that there was nothing he could do to ameliorate it - he was being forced to just follow as others made decisions on his behalf. But the fact of the matter was that there was nothing else he could do,  he was just a child. And deep down, he wasn't confident that he could make the "right" decision... whatever that was.

Adults know better, that's why they're adults. They've lived longer, experienced much in turn. It should give them the expertise to make the "right" decision.

"How many people have been stranded in a completely foreign place with no way to return home?" Kano asked out loud. After all, wisdom comes with experience, and so far, he did not know of anyone else who had gone through something like this before.

"Would Mister Larks know what to do? He knows everything," Kano added with a wistful expression.

Little did he know that maybe Guy was probably one of the handful of others in this universe who could relate to him.

As memories of his time with his family started to rush back in, Kano's eyes burst out with tears and the boy descended into a muffled whimper. He covered himself with the heavy leather blanket and cried his eyes out. Seconds turned to minutes, which then turned to hours until he tired out and fell asleep. Though his slumber was far from comforting.

Kano woke up eventually as bright rays of the sun pierced through the gap in his eyelids. He sat up on the mattress and looked out the window. A few seconds passed before he doubled back mentally.

"Why is there a sun here?"

He leapt out from his mattress and hurried over to the window. 

Kano's heart skipped a beat as he pressed his face against the cold glass, eyes wide with disbelief. The sight before him defied all logic and expectation. It wasn't a sun that bathed the underground city in warm, golden light, but a colossal, living heart. It pulsed rhythmically, emanating a luminous glow that mimicked the dawn's early light. Though unlike with a real sun, he didn't have to squint as he observed this light source.

"Is that a heart?!" Kano exclaimed.

"That's a Life Enginer," Dodi's voice answered. Kano jerked his head towards her voice and saw the woman by the door with a glass of what he assumed was milk (though it was of a pale-green hue). She placed the glass by the stone bed-side table and approached Kano by his window.

"Do you not have this back in your lands?"

Kano shook his head and said, "We don't live underground, so we have the sun to provide light and heat for us."

"It must be pleasant to live in a world free of hazards," Dodi commented in a hopeful manner.

Kano hummed while observing the beating heart. It was both disgusting and fascinating at the same time. The heart was embedded into the ceiling of the cave as through it were a real, organic system. Dim, molten lava flowed in towards the heart through a network of tubing in the ceiling like veins, and bright, molten lava flowed out through others like arteries. The heart was covered in runic features (Dwarven scripts) that pulsed out with a purple hue with each beat, acting as a consistent source of light.

"What is a Life Engine?" Kano probed. "Why does it look like a heart?"

"Because it is a heart," Dodi responded. "It is the heart of a Gold Dragon. An ancient one at that. The Founder of Dhakhar, Jeb the Goldslayer, established this city in the warmth of the heart of the Gold Dragon that once called this place its horde. Most, if not all, great dwarven cities or towns are built under the warmth of a Life Engine. In a way, the size and prosperity of a city is tethered to the size and capacity of the Life Engine that illuminates it."

"He killed a dragon?" Kano exclaimed in shock. "Why?"

"What do you mean, 'Why?'" Dodi said with a confused expression.

"Did the dragon snatch this city away from its initial inhabitants?" He clarified.

"No," Dodi answered while shaking her head.

"So they just walked into the dragon's home and killed it? And to top" Kano probed with disgust evident on his face.

"I mean... if you phrase it like that then it sounds kind of-"

"Despicable!" Kano expressed in shock.

Dodi did not know how to respond to that accusation appropriately, "A dragon is a dangerous creature. It has the potential to eradicate large cities if left unchecked."

"Oh..." Kano mumbled. "Was this Gold Dragon threatening the poeople?"

"Well..." Dodi couldn't bring herself to say or admit that Jeb the Goldslayer had probably snuck up on a sleeping dragon, which was probably minding its own business, and killed it. And if that wasn't enough of disrespect, the poor creature was gutted and its heard was then used to heat up the same cave it called its own.

Of course, Dodi rationalise it this way in her head. There are certain things in life and society that people just take as is, since that is the way things have always been. Humans use the honey manufactured by bees to sweeten their drinks and food items. Honey that is manufactured after collection through days, if not weeks, worth of hardwork of many insects. For most humans this is perfectly fine. Though it is a questionable claim that has sparked many a debates.

For Dodi, and most if not all dwarves, the matter of harvesting a dragon's heart to provide warmth for their cities was just a normal aspect of life.

Before Dodi could answer, Kam's voice called out from downstairs, "When's breakfast?"

"It looks like Kam's ready for work today. Come, now. It will be your first day today learning our ways, and since it will be Elder Bolin teaching you we absolutely cannot afford to keep him waiting," Dodi hurriedly said while shepherding Kano towards the bathroom.

___

As the new "family" sat together for breakfast, Kam started to explain to Kano the do's and do-not's that he should be mindful of while visiting Elder Bolin. Though Kano noticed that there was a massive scarcity of do's (almost none, for that matter) and an unbearable excess of do-not's.

"Do not, under any circumstance, ask Elder Bolin of his age," Kam warned while chewing on a strip of charred meat quite aggressively. "Just know that he's old, far older than you and I."

"But why?" Kano probed.

"Does it matter?" Kam retorted. "Just avoid that topic at every instance possible."

"Oh! And now that you've brought it up, do not ask question!" Kam reminded while shaking the meat towards Kano with a serious frown on his face. "That old coot has grown more and more sensitive these days. Its best that you don't scratch at his ego unwittingly by asking a question he doesn't know the answer to."

"Do you remember everything?" Dodi asked from the side.

"Is it really so scary?" Kano mumbled with cold sweat forming on his back. He didn't realise just how prickly this Elder Bolin was. He sort fo gauged that the man was a bit hot-headed and stubborn, but now it seemed that the situation was far worse than that. Though this did make Kano question the wisdom of the adults in the room.

"If it was so... tough, why did you agree to have me tutored under him?" Kano asked with faint irritation.

"He's an extremely capable educator," Kam answered while avoiding eye-contact. "We all have problems with him as a person, but you won't hear a single person who would speak poorly about his pedagogical skills."

Affirmative hums echoed all around as Dodi agreed with Kam's statement.

"How am I supposed to learn if I can't ask any questions?" Kano inquired.

"What does asking questions have to do with learning?" Kam said with a mirthful snort, which was once again affirmed by his wife.

Kano didn't know how to explain the problem with that statement. Once again, some things are so deeply ingrained into society as constructs that it becomes hard for someone to comprehend an alternate approach. And this works both ways. Because Kano was having a difficult time grasping the expected conventions. Especially so because all of it was being dumped on him in bulk.

The breakfast continued, with the adults offering more tips for survival when one is locked in the same cage as Elder Bolin.

After they'd finished, the whole family prepared themselves for the day, with Kam suiting up in his weapons and armour, and Kano putting on a new set of clothes that Dodi had bought for him the last night. It was a simple cotton shirt and trouser, and although it fit him length-wise, the girth of the attire made it so that it was too loose for him.

"Usually, dwarves your height tend to be thicker," Dodi explained. "This is only temporary, I will sew you a new set today."

"Alright, let's go!" Kam declared before giving his wife a peck on her lips and pushing the door open.

"AAAH!" Kam yelped with a voice that was many octaves higher than it should have been. Dodi disappeared so quickly that all that remained was a faint outline of her form.

"E-Elder Bolin," Kam mumbled, as he looked at the man who was scowling so hard his face had contorted like a rotten pumpkin. "H-How long were you here for?"

The man had been sitting at a seat by the entrance for guests. Unfortunately, the seat also happened to neighbour the wall of the dining room.

"Long enough to hear you folks wax poetic about me," Elder Bolin growled. His eyes then fell on Kano. He pulled the boy aside and he said, "I am not a monster as these two make me out to be. You are free to discuss and ask questions."

Kano looked over the Elder's shoulder and saw Kam shaking his head vigorously, "It's a trap!" he mouthed.

Kano swallowed a dry gulp while following the Elder as he mounted a massive Goonie.

Kano turned back one last time and notice that Dodi had returned by Kam's side. Both of them waved him good-bye, but he didn't miss them mouthing, "Good luck!" to him.

____

{:$/tgt/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/tgt/index:}[index] - {:$/tgt/volume-6/chapter-421:}[next >]
