@document.meta
title: Chapter 438 - From the Diaphragm
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: Volume 6
created: 2024-04-23T23:34:50+0400
updated: 2024-06-11T00:28:43+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Elder Bolin had a hearty conversation with Kano, as the imperceptible barrier
between them dissipated. After all, once you've seen another man cry, you've
probably witnessed them at their most vulnerable, so what was the use being
reserved after that point?

The more they conversed, Elder Bolin found himself growing more and more
intrigued with the little boy, whose mind was able to operate in a realm far
beyond his years. It wasn't his intelligence that piqued Elder Bolin's
attention, but his ability to look underneath the surface and derive meaning in
things that most would dismiss at a surface glance.

"How is it that I can... I guess relive is the right word here- How is it that
I can relive and experience the stories inscribed into these items?" Kano
inquired with a thoughtful expression. "I've always wanted to ask this, ever
since I first saw the mural at the City Hall. Is it some kind of magic?"

Kano could recollect something similar he'd tried before back on Gaea. It was
called a flip book, and it was extremely tedious to make. But it was thoroughly
entertaining to flip through it again and again. However, the flip book showed
the sequence physically - its effect was limited. You couldn't live or feel the
story the flip book contained.

The effect he felt when... experiencing the stories inscribed into these items,
and even the mural, was akin to a flip book, but with even more immersion. The
scenes would flash through his mind in quick succession, and he would be left
with a myriad of emotions and feelings. It was somewhat similar to watching a
play, but a really choppy one at that.

"That is how we tell our stories," Elder Bolin started with an instructive
demeanour. "Dwarven script is all about crafting a narrative and packaging it
into a medium that acts as its carrier."

"How do you read it, then? Am I doing it correctly?" Kano asked while
proceeding to describe what he saw when deciphering the inscriptions on a
helmet beside him.

"There is no right way to read Dwarven script," Elder Bolin answered with a
snort. "It falls on the inscriber to ensure that their story is conveyed
correctly."

Kano traced his finger over a length of script etched into the helmet while
copying it into his memory. "Something tells me that there is more to it than
just inscribing these symbols into an item."

"Another astute observation," Elder Bolin commended. "Alone, the Dwarven script
means nothing. The process of inscription is more involved than just that."

Kano's eyes glinted with a tinge of excitement as he asked, "Will you be
teaching me how to do that?"

Kano's mind was quick to assess the possibilities that mastering Dwarven script
would afford him in his endeavour to grow his skills in visual arts. After all,
proficiency in visual arts was a talent that was ingrained into his
metaphorical soul. He could find a visage of a dragon in a puddle of paint, and
actually bring it out such that those with a "lesser" vision could also see it.
And by his evaluation, Dwarven script would be an excellent addition to his
painter's toolkit, which could elevate the quality of his output.

"Usually, this is thought from a very young age," Elder Bolin responded with a
hum. "While reading the script is a trivial matter, inscribing requires a lot
of groundwork to become properly skilled at it. Yet it forms the basis of
everything taught here. So yes, you are correct. I will be teaching this to
you- in fact, it is the first item on your curriculum."

He then walked out of the living room and into his kitchen and exited while
pulling out an elaborate mechanism that was about three-fourths his height. It
was a device made entirely out of polished wood and looked like a barrel laid
on its side with four wheels. There was a large bladder-like attachment on top
of the wooden barrell, which opened up, similar to a horn. A few large
movements distracted Kano, who only then noticed that Elder Bolin was wearing a
leather apron with a few tools latched on slots by his abdomen.

He pulled out a hammer and chisel and removed the cloth on the table between
them to reveal a large metal anvil.

"Do you know what this is?" He then asked while pointing at the large wooden
contraption. As Kano shook his head, the Elder answered, "It's called a Gorgan.
It is a musical instrument."

"No way!" Kano exclaimed. He scooted close to the object and started to circle
it curiously. "How does it work? Do you blow into one of these tubes?"

"Woah, there!" Elder Bolin growled while pulling Kano away from the device
before he could touch it. "It's been passed down in my family over three
generations. And THAT is a very long time, kid. You don't want to be messing
around with something that old, especially if it's made out of wood!"

Kano bit his tongue apologetically and voiced it, "I'm sorry."

"No matter," Elder Bolin said with a scowl. He then jerked his chin towards
Kano's seat and instructed, "Stop faffing about and sit over there. What you're
going to observe is the ultimate application of Dwarven Script - Enchanting. Of
course, I am not going to enchant equipment in front of you. The exact process
is a bit more complex and unique to every craftsman, only meant to be passed
down from one generation to the next through a sacred master-apprentice
relationship. However, the basics remain the same. AND, Enchanting happens to
exemplify all the aspects of Dwarven Script, so it will be a crucial
demonstration for us. Therefore, observe what I am doing. Very. Carefully."

The dwarf placed a metal plate on the anvil and pressed the chisel against it.
He emptied his lungs and took in a deep breath.

The man paused, and a charged silence took over the room. And then, he released
his held breath, and with it came a guttural melody from his throat. The sound
was unlike anything familiar. It was thick and full, yet surprisingly textured
– a raw, resonant vibration that filled the room. This deep drone felt primal,
the sort of sound that might emanate from the earth itself.

Then, like sunlight breaking through a storm, a piercing whistle emerged from
the drone. This second sound was pure and sharp, slicing through the heaviness.
It shifted and wavered as he subtly reshaped his lips, like a bird modulating
its song. Sometimes, a third sound layered in – a rough, almost buzzing tone
that emerged as he subtly changed the depth of his mouth cavity.

The sounds started to layer over each other to form a pleasant harmony, and
through it, as Elder Bolin moved his lips, Kano could hear lyrics. This was
music.

And quite abruptly, the music stopped. Elder Bolin cleared his throat and
started again. This time, there was no build-up as Kano was deposited right
into the middle of the wave. Additionally, Kano heard a new sound overlaid on
the melody. His gaze turned away from the elderly dwarf and drew towards the
wooden contraption that the man had rolled in. Surprisingly, it was breathing -
the bladder that was atop the mechanism was expanding and contracting
rhythmically, releasing a nasal drone. This augmented the Elder's throat song,
making it sound richer.

At that moment, the Elder's mallet rose and descended on the chisel. It
bounced, rose, and descended again, forming a beat that ebbed and flowed with
the music. Altogether, as Kano listened to the one-man, one instrument
orchestra, images started to flash through his mind.

The mallet descended like the boots of soldiers, as they marched down a narrow
cave - their footfalls resonating and echoing within the nigh endless path that
seemed to continue endlessly. A sense of foreboding washed over the small army,
as they anticipated what lay dormant at the end of their march - a dragon. And
it wasn't just any dragon, it was a Temporal Drake, one of the most dangerous
draconic entities in the entire world. These were creatures that were immortal
not just through virtue of their cultivation, but their bloodline as well.

The soldiers marched onwards, knowing that what lay ahead was a certain demise.
But retreat wasn't an option - it was do or die.

The music turned softer, as the soldiers' decisive march turned into a careful
sneak, as their ears caught the faint yet distinct sound of the drake snoring.
They didn't delude themselves by thinking that their half-assed attempt to
tip-toe wouldn't alert the creature. The dragon probably knew of their approach
the moment they entered its domain. It was just taunting them by relaxing - its
message was loud and clear. They were inconsequential, akin to ants!

The dwarves bit down on their shattered egos and attacked the sleeping beast.
Yet just as the first dwarf's sword was about to cleave the beast's wing-

The mallet descended like the boots of soldiers, as they marched down a narrow
cave...

Kano's ears perked up, as Elder Bolin cycled back and repeated the first verse
verbatim, in its entirety.

This motif played out for four bars before a change was introduced. The
intensity of the music hastened, as the dragon had taken the initiative this
time. The dwarves didn't even have the time to properly process their own
demise as they were crushed under the bronze beasts' sword-like claws.

The motif repeated but extended for eight bars before a wind-up was introduced,
as the soldiers were blindsided by traps laid out by the dragon.

This repeated again, and again, and again. And it was on the sixth repeat that
Kano realised what was happening.

"They're stuck!" He muttered in a low voice. The music was being played from
the dwarves' perspective. They were actually stuck in some kind of a temporal
loop that was causing them to repeat the day but without their knowledge. Most
probably, the Temporal Drake had trapped them in it and was toying with them
with each loop.

Kano spotted a faint smile on the Elder's lips and the man's arms stopped
moving. And with it, the Gorgan stopped bleating, and so did the images as they
stopped flitting through Kano's mind.

"Do you understand?" Elder Bolin asked as he handed the metal plate, which was
now etched in its entirety, to Kano.

Kano followed the etching and was pleasantly surprised to find out that what
the inscriptions showed him was the same narrative he'd experienced earlier.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-439:}[next >]

