@document.meta
title: Chapter 447 - What We Leave Behind
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-05-21T21:47:04+0400
updated: 2024-05-26T00:26:58+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kam, with Kano in tow, stumbled into the cramped, shadowy alleyway where Darvia, had sought refuge. It was near Elder Bolin's house, possibly a few streets away. He found her huddled low, her body wracked with sobs as she scrubbed at her tear-streaked face with trembling fingers.

He squatted down to her level and gently rubbed her back as he spoke soothing words to calm her down. While her reaction appeared excessive at first glance, Kam could sympathise with why things turned out this way. It was a simple apology, sure, but it had completely unwound a massive knot in Darvia's heart since her childhood.

Hearing a sincere apology from her childhood tormenter was cathartic, to say the least. Although it did not exonerate the man from his deeds, it did hold a significant meaning. After all, Elder Bolin wasn't one to admit fault so quickly.

Darvia felt vindicated. And she was utterly annoyed, that it took so long for the man to admit his mistakes! But after a long twenty minute of exhausting herself of all her tears, Darvia sobered up and realised the Kam had been eerily silent this entire time. She glanced at his face and noticed the familiar expression he wore whenever he had a request she'd likely oppose. Funnily enough, the last time he had this expression was when-

"No! Uh-uh! Absolutely not!" Darvia extricated herself from her husband's embrace and rattled off while shaking her head vehemently. "Kam Bruin! I am not sending Kano back under than man!"

"W-What? H-How did you- I mean, what are you talking about? I wasn't going to send him back," Kam rebutted while sputtering uncontrollably.

Darvia sneered and said, "I've lived with you long enough to know what goes on in that empty noggin of yours!"

Kam hoped to ease Darvia into the topic again, but now that his wife's intuition had involuntarily outed everything, there was no point in beating around the bush. And so, he revealed the missed conversation he had with Elder Bolin.

"Are you out of your damn mind?" Darvia exploded. "Did you not see what he did the last time."

"Look," Kam said with a calm voice. "I am not here to ask you to reconsider. In fact, I am also apprehensive towards sending Kano back. However, I think we should take a moment to consider the situation rather than outright denying things like this."

"Hmm," Darvia hummed for ten seconds and shrugged vigorously, "There! I thought it out, considered it, and am saying now. AGAIN!"

With an amused snort, Kam stood up to leave. But as he did so, he froze, his eyes wide as though he'd seen a ghost.

Darvia followed his gaze and let out a curse, "Fuck! Not again..."

Standing at the entrance to the alleyway was Elder Bolin. And surprisingly, the man did not look like he was about to burst at his seams with rage this time, though his face was still scrunched up with annoyance. Maybe that was just his natural expression.

Before anyone could speak up, the Elder raised a palm and said, "It's fine. I've come to realise that bit of back-bitching once in a while is necessary. I won't take it as an act of disrespect... even though it clearly is..."

He walked up to the group and placed a gentle palm over Kano's shoulder. The man probably wished to portray himself as a caring adult, but the fact that Kano was just about his height made it look like the Elder was greeting a friend. Which was weird in and of itself, since the sight of a shrivelled, hairy man against a young and perky lad brought forward an extremely awkward image.

"I heard the tail end of your conversation, and would like to personally make my pitch to you-"

"That isn't necessary," Darvia interrupted decisively. "I am not a gambling woman, and even more so I am not willing to place the sanity and future of my ward on the line."

Darvia thought that her curtness and adamant attitude would be enough to discourage the Elder from pursuing the matter further. Yet to her utter shock, the old man did the unthinkable. He rushed forward.

Darvia braced for impact, but what should have struck her instead struck the ground, as the man kneeled completely.

"E-Elder what are you doing!" Kam yelled as he rushed forward to raise the old man. If anyone were to catch this sight right now, it would put the Bruins in a tough spot. To have an Elder kneel to them was a show of arrogance and disrespect that no amount of explaining could clarify.

"Please," Elder Bolin implored in a surprisingly soft voice. "I wish to change. If everything I have done till this point in my life can be scrapped up neatly and trashed, I would like the time that I have remaining to mean something. All I ask for is an opportunity. I will teach him in your household, under your watchful eye. If you feel that my approach is inappropriate, you will have the complete authority to interject and admonish me. But please, I implore you to reconsider."

"Why are you doing this, Elder Bolin?" Darvia asked with a groan. "You are placing me in a tough position by behaving this way."

"I know that I am being selfish. But a Dwarf's lifeblood is defined by the story they leave behind. I don't want the ballands sung about me after my passing to be laced with curses and ill-wishes," Elder Bolin expressed with a sorrowful frown.

Darvia turned away and punched the wall angrily. She then released a long exhale as she pondered over the matter. She then spoke up, "Fine. I am willing to accept you back as his instructor, BUT-"

She raised a finger and looked at the Elder incisively, "I have a single condition that YOU MUST fulfil!"

A hopeful glint appeared in the Elder's eyes, but her next words doused him with disappointment.

"Just as you have apologised to me, I want you to personally apologise to everyone you have every taught and treated poorly," Darvia declared. "That is my condition."

Then, with a challenging smirk, she proposed, "Do you accept?"

___

And unprecedentedly long line extended accross the City Hall, having reached the entrance. The source of this queue was deep within the hall, at the offices of one of the leaders of the City of Dhakhar.

If someone were to draw lines representing the foot traffic within the City Hall over the last decade, they would notice that while the rest of the Hall was a jumbled mess, within a five metre radius of this one location in the hall, they would only be a sparse few lines of traffic. And that too belonging to one individual - the inhabitant of the office. So it was rather confusing when suddenly, all the foot traffic was being directed into that single room that everyone avoided like the plague.

But business had to move as usual, regardless of the odd occurrences within the building. So people chose to ignore it an carried on. Though, like in all places of business, there are always a few individuals lacking work in their pipeline. And one of these "idle" individuals decided to quench their curiousity and approached one of the people flocking in the line.

"Hey there, Dodi!" The dwarf asked the first familiar face he could find. The woman, though, did not return the greeting. Her sight was trained forward. Her face frozen in a state that exuded fear. Of course, this was amplified by the fact that she was clearly sweating profusely, and her hands (closed into tight fists) were shaking uncontrollable. The man waved his hand in front of her eyes and snapped his finger. When all that failed, he nudged her gently, which finally pulled her out of her frozen state.

"Eh, Dwalin?!" Dodi exclaimed.

"What's going on, woman?" Dwalin asked. "You look like you're about to walk into an execution."

"You could say its something like that," Dodi mumbled. "Do you remember how Elder Bolin has been out of office for the past week or so? Well, now he's back."

"Damn!" Dwalin evoked. "But what-"

As the dwarf cast his gaze accross the queue, he realised that all of those present were the Empaths employed in the City Hall. And not just the current one, but also the ones from the previous generations!

"What's going on?"

"We don't know," Dodi answered. "We were called in today morning to report to Elder Bolin's office as soon as we arrived."

Dwalin could sense the tension in the air. Elder Bolin was infamous for his temper, and if he'd called ALL the Empaths he'd ever trained to visit him, then something explosive was definitely about go down. Dwalin shuddered as he thought back to his childhood days when he'd been reamed verbally by the same man.

"Yeah... I wouldn't want to be in your place right now," Dwalin commented with a jocular intonation, only to receive a death glare from the hundreds standing in line.

At that moment the door to the office opened and a person stepped out.

All eyes glued in on the individual, some even tried to go out and ask them what had transpired behind the door to hell. But all they got was a blank and lifeless stare.

The next person in line went in, and the doors closed behind them like the jaws of a hungry Abyssal Wyrm. Minutes passed, and the doors opened again. And just like before, a lifeless corpse walked out.

Dwalin gulped audibly before high-tailing out of the location. While it was entertaining to watch, Elder Bolin's warpath was often strewn with collateral damage - something he did not want to be a part of.

Dodi counted down her end, until an hour passed and the door was the only thing standing between her and certain death. The maws opened once again, and Dodi walked in mechanically.

The room was dark. Muted

At the far end, sat Elder Bolin behind his desk, with his chin resting on his arms propped against the desk.

Right as Dodi moved towards the seat opposite him-

"Stay there."

Dodi gulped.

The man stood up.

One great thing about Elder Bolin was that although the man had a mouth that could unscale a dragon, he never used his fists (unless of course if it was a fight). However, it seemed that the day had finally come.

Dodi cringed, awaiting impact.

And an impact did occur, but it was of the man's knees crashing against the stone floor.

"Dodi," Elder Bolin said. "I am sincerely and wholeheartedly sorry for the way I have treated you all this time. I was a horrible teacher, and even more horrible dwarf. I know it will be hard for you to forgive me, and I don't need you to do it. But know that I will try to be better from now onwards."

...

..

.

Dodi blanked out.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-448:}[next >]


