@document.meta
title: Chapter 424
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-26T21:11:31+0400
updated: 2024-02-28T23:24:17+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"He's not really flying, is he?" Wei Zao asked Guy with a tinge of hesitation in his voice.

"He's not," Guy assuaged, but Wei Zao wasn't satisfied with the response. "So he's... levitating?"

"You've got that right," Guy answered while revealing a proud smirk. "He's grown a lot since the last fight. I'm sure he's going to suprise you."

"To be fair, he surprised me back then too," Wei Zao admitted with a bitter smile. "You see, my... power doesn't register anything that isn't something that has already been discovered or documented. The cutoff point seems to be the time of my migration."

Guy's brows cocked up in surprise, "Meaning anything new that was innovated after your arrival is a blind spot for you? Have there been others?"

"Well, almost everything in here is kind of drawing a blank," Wei Zao declared. "There WERE a few food items here and there while I was in the Capital that came blank. By the way, does yours really only provide you with books from your past life?"

"And some minor upgrades over the years," Guy added. "But yes, that's the crux of it."

Guy noticed Wei Zao giving him an awkward look. "Is there something wrong?"

"I don't think I'd have been able to achieve all this if I had your power. I mean, the one I got IS definitely better. But I've barely managed to remove my training wheels!"

Guy shrugged and said, "Who's to say that you wouldn't eventually grow out of it and explore beyond the confines your powers drew for you? The fact is that I was kind of thrown into the deep end, for better or for worse. I was forced to learn to swim."

"And you survived! I wouldn't-"

"Stop selling yourself short," Guy immediately interjected while placing a comforting palm on the man's shoulder. "Now let us cease this discussion and observe the fight."

Wei Zao swallowed his words and subscribed to the spar on stage.

While the two men were talking, the two combatants had only exchanged a meagre few spells. As established, combat between mages in the same realm was often an intricate dance. Victory depended on two fronts, the metaphysical and physical. The former evaluated the combatant's proficiency in wresting control when mana domains overlap, and the latter involves actual confrontation and exchanging attacks physically.

Gaige's cultivation method and combat strategy involved overpowering the opponent with the sheer pressure of darkness. The void-infused mana is corrosive in a special way, over exposure results in disintegration. In an elongated confrontation, Gaige was certain to win, as long as he was economical with his mana usage, as his opponents would exhaust their mana at an accelerated rate as long as it remained in contact with his own. But Gaige quickly realised that he could not rely on this strategy because the horizon upon which his mana domain coincided with Markus' the two were getting canceled out. In essence, he was expending his mana just as quickly as Markus was. So if this continued, the best he could eke out would be a draw.

Gaige sidestepped a small |Fireball| and rushed forward. Though as he was almost ten metres away from Markus, he paused and dodged once again as an explosion rocked the position he was in a split-second earlier. In fact, Gaige still remembered the circumstances of his near-defeat during his previous confrontation with Markus - it was due to the boy's uncanny ability to spam spells. He was also aware of the impeccable preparation the boy had gone through to cover his weakness.

Markus was a tough opponent - one of the toughest Gaige had every confronted in his lifetime. The boy knew his shortcomings down to a 'T'. And that made him dangerous, because the most obvious routes of victory were laden with traps of all sorts. But from a counter-perspective, it also made him less vigilant towards attacks from that avenue. Because when you know that the weakest part of a structure is reinforced, you subconsciously divert your attention to the parts that are strongest.

Saying it out loud didn't make much sense, but Gaige growled while grinding his teeth and rushed forward. A coat of darkness enveloped him as he barrelled through a near-imperceptible mist that was most certainly made of acidic residue. The corrosive mist itself got corroded as it collided against his void-infused mana. A barrage of narrow and targetted attacks collided against him, most of which dissipated as it got swallowed by the darkness. But Gaige could feel his coat dissipating rapidly as it had to field an increasingly rapid onslaught.

Luckily, he made it to a distance that was within his zone of attack before he lost his protective coating. And with a decisive slash, he brought his sword (which was crackling with a black sheen) down on Markus. To his mild surprise, Markus dodged - barely missing the slash as it breezed past his shoulder. But Gaige had anticipated this - it would have been too easy a victory otherwise. He followed the next set of movements of his Sword Art.

'Unending Strike!' The sword danced like a snake as it carved towards Markus.

'Suppressing Force!' It wove with grace yet unwavering resolve.

'Into the Void!' The two attacks, though dodged, cornered Markus into a position where this final strike would deal a decisive blow. Darkness started to gather around Gaige, causing the pressure to build up rapidly. The sword turned two-dimensional as light itself got deleted as it collided against its metal.

Gaige slashed the sword for the final time. It wouldn't kill Markus, but it would definitely injure him significantly. Hopefully, his opponent would recognise this and call for a concession.

But right as the sword reached mere centimetres away from Markus, the boy did something crazy. He let the blade strike his arm.

Gaige fully-expected the boy's limb to fall off clean, but something stopped the weapon from following through. There was nothing but skin and cloth, but that was enough, somehow!

But Gaige did not have another second to evaluate this, as Markus started to duck and weave towards him. With two agile movements, Markus had made it to less than an arm's length of Gaige, which was far too close to be within his zone of attack. To compensate, Gaige tried to strafe back strategically, but his opponent grabbed him by his collars and twisted it into an over-the-shoulder-throw.

Gaige prepared to catch the landing so that he could transition into a subsequent chain of attacks, but seconds passed and his feet never touched the ground.

____

{:$/tgt/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/tgt/index:}[index] - {:$/tgt/volume-6/chapter-425:}[next >]
