@document.meta
title: Chapter 436 - Outside the Box
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-04-15T21:24:50+0400
updated: 2024-04-16T23:26:48+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"Though it does make me wonder," Thalias stated with a thoughtful expression. He cast his inspecting gaze over Dora and furrowed his brows. "How did you hear me talk when I was caught and gagged?"

"Umm, I just heard you... I don't know how to answer that question," Dora responded, voicing her confusion.

Thalias shook his head and corrected himself, "I know that you can hear and understand me as we are talking right now. What I'm referring to is my True Voice."

Dora's expression deepened in confusion and turned completely blank. Thalias let out a dry chuckle and said, "Like this."

Those words were spoken, but they did not leave his lips.

"And this isn't mana transmission," Thalias added in a similar manner as his lips remained unmoving. "This is my True Voice, and you can hear it."

Dora nodded affirmatively. "I can hear animals and beasts talk... well, I'd say that was the usual case. But nowadays, the creatures I meet are mostly silent and non-communicative."

"If you're referring to the menagerie Aurwen harbours in her garden, it is highly unlikely for you to hear those beasts speak. Their souls have been despoiled beyond saving..." Krivax said with a dark gaze. "The True Voice is the voice carried by every creature without a voice."

"You just said voice three times in a sentence," Dora pointed out while chuckling uncontrollably.

Thalias released a snort and reiterated, and this time, he spoke through his throat, "Everything that lives, breathes and most importantly, harbours a soul, has a voice. Be in animals or plants, as long as they are sentient and contain a soul, they talk to the world and the world talks to them. Most entities that aren't born with the natural capacity to express their thoughts vocally, rely on this 'voice' to convey their thoughts. Conversely, this is also why most high-sentient entities like elves and humans are ignorant of this 'voice'. Since you don't need it, you don't use it, hence you don't hear it. This 'voice', which is called an entity's True Voice, is what I am currently using to communicate with you. In fact, this is an ability I gained due to my soul being merged with Pollux, which is usually the norm. But its interesting that you can hear it without having merged with a beast."

He then sniffed Dora's scent and asked, "Do you happen to have a special bloodline or physique?"

Dora shrugged in response. "I've always been able to hear animals talk. But after coming here, things have gotten extremely quiet. Its like animals just don't talk at all."

Thalias let out a bitter laugh and said, "That's because the poor creatures' souls are so broken, that they lack any substantial thought! They lack autonomy in every way barring eating, sleeping and excreting. Every action, every behaviour, and every quirk is dictated by the enslaver, so what need is there for them to share their thoughts?"

"But I must say, you sure are a special case. Are there a lot of people like you amongst your kind?" He asked curiously.

"I... don't know," Dora responded while scratching her forehead in thought.

"That's probably why Aurwen hasn't gotten to you just yet," Thalias concluded. "You have value to her as rare species. Kind of like that insect of ours, what was she called again? Fancy, was it?"

The moment those words left Thalias' lips, Dora's expression paled at a frightening rate. The intrigued and inquisitive emotions drained completely, leaving her thoroughly shocked.

"F-Fancy!" Dora exclaimed while pacing around the room and grabbing her hair anxiously. "What do I do! What do I do?" She repeated, and her countenance grew increasingly panicked with each lap made.

"What's wrong, kid?" Thalias interjected, as he tried to calm the girl down, though he could do very little from his imprisoned and bound state.

"What will happen to Fancy? Aurwen will turn her soulless too!" Dora expressed while on the verge of tears.

"Relax, kid!" Thalias responded. He pulled his lips into a thin line in thought before thinking out loud, "It should at least be two weeks since my capture. I am not totally sure, because truth be told I've been phasing in and out of consciousness a lot in the past few days, and my internal clock is busted to heck."

"Kid, have you seen Fancy since you arrived at this mansion?" Thalias asked Dora, while trying to distract the girl from her mental breakdown.

Dora whimpered and shook her head.

"Alright, so I can say with complete certainty that Fancy hasn't been enslaved by Aurwen. Last I saw, the creature had only just entered the Foundation Establishment realm. Given the gulf between Aurwen and her cultivation realms, Fancy shouldn't last more than a few days at most. AND, if the procedure was successful, Aurwen would immediately flaunt her new capture, if not in public then at least in front of you. The woman is psychotic through and through, she revels in the misery of others, and she wouldn't miss the opportunity to rub it in your face, given how openly you displayed your attachment to Fancy in front of her," Thalias analysed. His words appeased Dora, who slowly collapsed onto her knees and let out a tired sigh.

"But I can't say if Fancy is in a good state. I mean, take a look at me? If I was so resistant to enslavement and she brought me down to this state, imagine what state Fancy would me in," Thalias added off-handedly, but he regretted throse words the moment they departed his lips.

Dora started to breath rapidly while crying silently, until she lost consciousness altogether.

___

Sometime later, Dora regained consciousness and woke up from the hard and sticky floor with a loud groan.

"Damn it, kid! You're really cutting it close!" Dora heard Thalias' voice grumbling in a low whisper. "Hey!" He called out with a hiss.

Dora looked towards the bound man, her expression blank in confusion.

"Get the hell out, quick!" He yelled silently.

Dora took a few seconds to process the command, her environment, her circumstance and finally the time (which was an enigma to her in the perpetually lit dungeon).

She then scrambled and rushed out, not forgetting to close the metal door behind her. Her feet propelled her up the stairs, past the mindless slaves, and into the vast forested garden. The air smelt different up here – a little fresher, a little less like stale sweat and blood. But it felt just as oppressive and isolating.

Dora's eyes scanned the area, desperate for any sign of Fancy. Her ears twitched at every rustle of leaves, every thoughtless chirp of an unseen bird.  Where could her friend be? Fear gnawed at her stomach, a cold knot tightening inside. Aurwen's cruelty knew no bounds.

But it was a futile effort and she knew. This wasn't the first time Dora had scoured the woods for any trace of Fancy. Each and every single time, she just found herself going around in circles. But Fancy realised that there was little room for despair now.

And unfortunately, as with all her previous attempts, Dora had to confront failure once again. She collapsed on the ground near the perimeter of the woods and cradled her face inside her palms. Tears welled up immediately, hot and unstoppable. She fought them at first, but the sobs constantly tore at her throat and ultimately forced their way out of her.

Since her displacement from Gaea, Dora never had the opportunity to take the time and properly process her emotions. As her base fight or flight instincts had taken over, she'd been running on autopilot for the past few weeks. But the emotional overload and subsequent breakdown had sobered her up significantly, and suddenly, Dora was feeling all alone. The loneliness was a gaping hole in her chest, an emptiness no amount of searching could fill. She was a lost child in a terrifying, unfamiliar world. She was feeling scared. She wanted to find Fancy, she wanted to go back home.

Dora cried out, her voice ragged. It echoed against the trees, but only the wind seemed to answer.

She kicked her legs against the ground, a futile tantrum against her own helplessness. Then, exhausted, she fell onto her back.  The sky was a harsh, alien turquoise. Each unfamiliar cloud was a sharp reminder of how far from home she truly was.

"I miss Kano..." she mumbled. "I hope he's doing okay..."

Her last thought was choked off by another wave of sobs. Dora was utterly, heartbreakingly alone.

But in the infrequent troughs that were sandwiched between her cresting cries, something caught Dora's ears. An almost imperceptible but present sound... of people! She could hear them talk and...was that laughter? Her heart pounded with a wild mixture of fear and desperate hope.

Wiping her tear-streaked face, Dora sat up.  The voices seemed to come from beyond the thick wall of trees at the garden's edge.  With renewed determination that was augmented with the natural curiosity of a child, she pushed herself to her feet. There had to be a way through.

She followed the edge of the walled of forest while keeping her hearing trained on the sound of voices. Logic dictated that where it sounded the loudest would lead her to the quickest way out. And her hypothesis was proven true, as when she narrowed her search down to the location where the voices were clearest, she noticed that the shrubbery in the wall was slightly thinner.

It wasn't enough to blatantly reveal a path out, but it was enough for Dora, with her size and tenacity, to squeeze through with great difficulty.

Dora knew that in leaving this place, she would be taking on a huge risk. But having experienced repeated failure, and exhausted all options, a part of her told her that maybe it was time to think a bit outside the box. So after steeling her expression, Dora applied her strength and pried apart the branches.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-437:}[next >]

