@document.meta
title: Chapter 450 - Rhythm and Poetry
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-06-02T01:14:15+0400
updated: 2024-06-04T23:43:13+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Gram did not require slumber. It was a choice. And thus within an hour of succumbing to it, he awoke once again and sat in a cross-legged position, rethinking the entire curriculum he had in mind for Kano.

There were far too many shortcomings in his methods that were far too glaringly visible (now that he'd been enlightened with Kano's ingenious teaching methodologies) that necessitated a revisit, restructure, or removal.

He approached the problem with a top-down approach, looking at the intended effect of a particular lesson and working backwards. For instance, the very next point in his curriculum was to teach Kano the general theory behind music such as tonal progression, chords, harmonies, and so on. Of course, this was prerequisite on the fact that the boy could make music with his biological instrument. Now that it was established that Kano didn't have the instrument altogether, this part should be scrapped. However, Kano had presented an alternative. This alternative, though vaguely feasible as a drop-in replacement for the cavern, did not mesh well with the predefined curriculum Gram had in mind.

This meant that this entire "branch" had to be reworked. Unfortunately, each part of the curriculum wasn't a standalone process, as they were intermingled in one way or another. With one branch removed, Gram found every other branch falling apart as well. In the end, he realised that he just had to start over, fresh.

With a tired chuckle Gram rested his palms on his work desk and started to rap his fingers against the stone granite surface rhythmically. Mentally, he planted a new seed - a new pathway to teach.

"This won't do-" He said after half an hour of unproductive silence. He went into his storage room and retrieved a handful of stone tablets and inscribing tools.

The boy's improved recording inscription was unfamiliar to Gram. Of course, it wasn't like no one had attempted Kano's strategy before. There are actual recordings of ancient ballads and war songs stored in the deepest confines of the City Hall's record vaults. These were the stories that couldn't be forgotten. And they were from a time before the Dwarven script was perfected and disseminated. They were also recorded in the voice of the creators of these stories so there was little room for misinterpretation or miscommunication.

With the advent of Dwarven scripture, recording as a method of storing and propagating stories was eventually phased out. For one, it was inaccessible and non-ubiquitous. Even mortals could take advantage of Dwarven script, the same couldn't be said of recordings.

But Kano's unique inscription got rid of this limitation. In fact, if the boy chose to disseminate this knowledge, he could probably turn Dwarven script obsolete! Just about anyone could create an impromptu recording, as it didn't really require any exceedingly expensive ingredients or tools.

After inscribing up the basic recording inscription on the stone tablet, Gram took a moment to recollect a ballad from his memory, and activated the recording. He decided to split the complex ballad into its individual components.

Ballads did not have a percussive element, as it was wholly a melodic piece. Kano's pseudo-spitting and thumping came across as a new addition Gram hadn't heard of before. It wasn't necessarily bad either... just, interesting...

After recording the first layer, he created a new recording and did the second. Then the third. All in all, there were five layers to the ballad, excluding the lyrical portion, which Gram started to sing after activating all the recordings simultaneously.

He put his complete focus into the process. One thing he kept in mind was that in not giving this alternative a fair shot, he would be failing Kano. And when before, he would very easily drop any student lacking promise or being generally incapable of doing certain things, he realised that it was not a tractable strategy anymore. Accepting that a child was hopeless was accepting that you just aren't good enough to teach them - it was a reflection of your capabilities as a teacher, after all!

As the music became whole, Gram could envision the scenario he was singing about. Images flashed past his mind, with the same level of vividity as with his usual methodology. This was enough to acertain the efficacy of Kano's methodology.

With the important test out of the way, Gram started to plan out the rest of the procedure.

___

"A scale is a sequence of notes, ordered in a particular way, with increasing pitch," Gram explained. Truth be told, the explanation was supposed to be much longer, and more intense. But he asked himself, 'Is this information necessary right now?'

One thing Gram learned was that one could liken teaching anything to the process of teaching someone how to swim. Throwing them into the deep-end from the beginning works, but not always - there is no guarantee there. However, a methodological process by starting from the shallows and moving to the deep-end is shown to result in greater success.

Similarly, not all content of a particular piece of knowledge is required in the first go. There is some benefit in building upon the knowledge with new information as and when they become necessary.

"Listen carefully," Gram emphasised before producing seven distinct pitched notes from his throat that ascended in frequency. "This is the most basic scale you should familiarise yourself with. A scale is always associated with a mood. For example, most ballads that are uplifting or evoke happiness tend to use this scale as their base."

"Now you try," Gram encouraged. Kano cleared his throat and tried thrice to evoke the same starting note as Gram. After repeated failure, he frowned and looked at Gram with a hesitant look. It was clear that the boy was expecting an outburst, which should have been the case. However, Gram was actively controlling his irritation.

"It's okay, try again. Slowly," Gram encouraged through gritting teeth.

Kano nodded once again, with vigour, and tried. This time was a passable success. Although he was off tune in three out of the seven notes, it wasn't anything a rigorous practise session couldn't fix. And this was exactly what they did for the rest of the day.

___

Gram's lessons also progressed rather monotonously, with a growing set of sounds for him to associate with shapes. Kano also started to introduce new games and tricks into the lesson to accelerate the learning process and add variations.

One such case was when they had to form the shapes with their bodies while yelling out the sound. Gram felt that it was a childish game, but Kano insisted that it was necessary part of the learning process.

Nonetheless, Gram was feeling satisfied with his progress in learning, but he couldn't say the same about his progress in teaching.

Because after Kano had learned the basic scales, Gram decided that it would be a good idea to try and get the boy to sing some of the classic ballads from Dwarven history that were taught to children. Such as the one about "Morg the Meek", or "Druig the Lucky", or even some ballads meant for pre-teens like "The Precocious Predi Twins".

They were short, and were often limited within a single octave, which was the span of a single scale (i.e. from one key to its subsequent occurence as one moves up the pitch).

The problem wasn't that Kano had trouble remembering these ballads. In fact, he had memorised them straight away. The issue was that he just couldn't sing.

Gram flinched as Kano missed the right note for the n-th time. That's right, Gram had lost count. It had been three days since they started working on "Morg the Meek". It wasn't a particularly challenging piece - the progression between notes was incremental, which was often a challenger for first-timers. If the music jumps from a low to a high note immediately, it is difficult for newbies to gauge the change in pitch, however if it is fluid in a arpeggiated manner, it isn't so hard to get lost.

Interestingly, Kano didn't have trouble humming the tune correctly. The screwup happened when it came time to sing with lyrics.

"~No f~Ood to EaT-"

"Stop!" Gram snapped angrily after failing to curtail his irritation. But he couldn't blame himself, he'd managed to hold back successfully for three days now!

"What in the world are you doing, kid?" He followed up. "its- '~No food to eat, no drink to sip~' where are those additional notes coming from?!"

"I-I'm trying-"

"Just where are you getting lost?" Gram interjected. "Explain to me in the best way possible. Help me, help you, okay?"

Kano bit his lips in worry and tried to vocalise his trouble, "Whenever I try to sing the words, my voice just doesn't follow the notes like it does when I hum," Kano stammered. "It's like... I can hear the right tune in my head, but when I add the words, something goes wrong, and I can't keep it in tune."

Gram sighed deeply, rubbing his temples. That explanation did nothing to clear things up. But Gram was certain that egging the kid to elaborate further would just make it worse and confuse them both. Gram wasn't prepared for this.

After scratching his beard in frustration, Gram suggested, "Let's try something different. I will create the backing melody. You try to match it with the music."

After receiving Kano's nod of assent, Gram proceeded to hum out the tune and gestured for the boy to join in.

"In ancient caves where shadows play,
Lived Morg the Meek, so small and gray.
A dwarf renowned for silent cheer,
He vanished once for a full year."

Gram paused and looked at Kano with a scowl, "You're supposed to sing that, boy."

"I was just trying to see how the lyrics are laid out over the music," Kano explained hurriedly.

"In ancient caves where shadows play,
Lived Morg the Meek, so small and gray.
A dwarf renowned for silent cheer,
He vanished once for a full year.

When dragons soared and fires burned,
And every dwarf for safety yearned,
Brave Morg did what no soul could seek,
He hid away, our Morg the Meek.

Beneath the dragon's fiery roost,
Where molten gold and treasure boost,
Morg found a nook, so tight and small,
And there he stayed, unseen by all.

No food to eat, no drink to sip,
Just courage on his cracked, dry lip.
With still resolve and breath so light,
He passed each day, survived each night.

The dragon's breath would scorch the air,
Yet Morg stayed hidden in his lair.
With beating heart, he held his ground,
His quiet strength was most profound.

A year had passed, the beast took flight,
And Morg emerged into the light.
The dwarves all gasped, their eyes so wide,
For Morg had lived, and none had died.

They hailed him then, the dwarves so bold,
With tales of courage, brave and old.
But Morg just smiled, and spoke so sleek,
"I'm just a dwarf, they call the Meek."

So raise a glass to legends told,
To silent strength and hearts of gold.
For in the depths where shadows seek,
We'll find the tale of Morg the Meek."

As Kano finished, his face crumpled into a frown.

"What's wrong?" Gram asked.

"It's so... boring," Kano commented. "I mean, hearing it the first time is like hearing it the tenth time. I goes da-Da-da-Da-da-Da-da-Da all the time."

"What's the problem with that?"

"Can I try something?" Kano probed. Gram hummed in assension.

The boy turned silent as he contemplated deeply. Almost half an hour passed that way, and Gram grew impatient. Just as he was about to nudge the boy, the kid opened his eyes and revealed an excited grin.

"Cave's tale unfolds,
Morg, meek and small.
Dragon fire roars,
Dwarves flee, hearts fall.
Morg hides, a year,
Silent, brave, unseen.
In shadows deep,
Awaits what's in between."

He then gazed at Gram expectantly.

There was silence as Gram processed the verse. Before he could comment the boy continued,

"Morg the Meek, master of the unassuming,
Hiding in shadows, like a silent moon blooming.
No food, no drink, just ironclad will,
In dragon's lair, time standing still."

"Boy what-"

"Dragon's wings cast a shadow, a blanket of fear,
Dwarves tremble and cower, their end drawing near.
But Morg remains steadfast, in his hidden nest,
Bravery's ember burning bright in his chest."

Kano started to tap his feet and pat his thighs as he continued.

"Darkness falls,
Fury echoes,
Morg waits,
Time flows,
Beast's flames settle,
Silence grows.

The cycle completes, the wyrm takes flight once more,
Leaving behind the darkness, ascending to soar.
Morg emerges from hiding, blinking in the light,
Dwarves astonished, their eyes wide with fright.

Raise a toast to the quiet,
The unsung heroes' might.
For the meek shall rise,
With a silent power's light."

Kano finished and looked, once again, at Gram with an expectant gaze. He'd hoped for some kind of critique (preferably the constructive kind). But what he saw was a blank-faced Gram, looking into the empty space with his eyes glazed over.

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-451:}[next >]

