@document.meta
title: Chapter 446 - Sobering
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-05-21T21:47:04+0400
updated: 2024-05-23T00:01:41+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

As the trio approached the vicinity of Elder Bolin's home, they were struck with a sudden bout of dizziness. It appeared as though the Elder's turbulent emotions were affecting the environment that fell within his mana domain. Even other passing by gave the building a wide berth. It was discomfitting.

Darvia swallowed a mouthful of dry air and eked closer, towards the door. At that juncture, she hesitated. If the heaviness bearing down on her was any indication of how the Elder was feeling right now, she did not want to trigger the man and suffer the full brunt of his ire.

But truthfully, she had no idea what was going on inside his head. All the way here, she was trying to process the Elder's decision to sequester himself like so. The Elder Bolin she knew wouldn't act so... submissively (if that even was the right word to describe this reaction). Was he throwing a tantrum? Was this his method of taking revenge? But that made no sense!

Maybe- Maybe this was all an act. Maybe he had this all planned out, hoping to draw them to him by pulling in Lord Dwynn through an open act of defiance. After all, it all felt convenient... too convenient.

'Of course-' Before Darvia's hesitant mind could succumb to paranoia and conjure up scenarios straight out of a play on heavy political intrigue, Kam's hand rested on her shoulder. She suppressed her apprehension and finally knocked on the door.

Before she could introduce herself, the pressure subsided instantly and the door swung open slowly, inviting them in. This was it!

'I knew it! The man was expecting us!' Darvia cursed herself for not standing her ground earlier and succumbing to Kam's words of reason. 'Reason? Pah! What use is there to reason against an immature man like Elder Bolin. He is elder only in name and years lived. Deep down he is an immature, conniving, vindicative little piece of Goonie sh-'

"Elder Bolin," Kam greeted, pulling Darvia out of her rage induced stupor. It was only now that Darvia realised that something was different in here.

"Where are all the weapons and armour pieces?" Kano asked as he eyed the nude walls of the dimly lit room they were in. The room that was once adorned with the Elder's handiwork now lay bare.

Of course, Darvia's gaze only lingered on this scarcity for a moment. Because she was immediately drawn to the only other entity in the room - Elder Bolin.

The man was seated in the dank and dim room at the very center. His body was drooping, and his hands were erected against his knees while supporting his busy chin. His eyes were glazed with a blank stare that looked past them, into the darkness.

As the silence started to extend for an uncomfortable duration, Kam decided to take the initiative once again and said, "Rather than waste the Elder's time, we will just get straight to the point."

He then nudged at Darvia who returned an annoyed glare before relenting, bowing at a complete ninety-degree bend and saying, "I apologise profusely for my rudeness, Elder Bolin. I know what I committed was a grave sin. I should not have lashed out at and disrespected you like that. I am willing to accept any punishment for my actions."

Darvia waited. And waited. She waited so long her back and hamstrings started to ache from being frozen in the bent posture. She lifted her head slightly to observe the elder dwarf's reaction, and was miffed to see that the man hadn't even moved from his position. Was he ignoring her on purpose?

"What reason is there to apologise?" Elder Bolin finally said, his voice laced with immense sorry and defeat.

The sudden disconnect between what Darvia expected the man's emotional state to be in, compared to the state his tone evoked, threw Darvia for a loop. So much so that she audibly voiced her confusion with an abrupt, "Eh?"

"I accept your needless apology, you may leave," the man said dismissively.

"Oh... Okay..." Darvia mumbled as she stood back up straight. She nudged Kam and gestured for them to make a hasty exit. 

Kam waited for another beat and said, "When can we expect Elder Bolin to resume operations at the City Hall. Everyone is... eagerly awaiting your return from this hiatus."

"Are they truly?" The old dwarf retorted with overflowing sarcasm.

"O-Of cour-"

"Let it rest," Elder Bolin interjected. "I know now just what position I occupy in your thoughts and hearts."

He looked directly into Darvia's eyes, and Darvia saw in turn just how haggard the man had become. Within a few days, he looked like he had physically aged by ten years. His eyes were sunken in, his hair unkempt (unlike any respectable dwarf), and his clothes looked like they hadn't been washed or changed in days.

"I should be thanking you, actually," he said to Darvia. "Thank you, for bringing to light just how delusional and blind I have been."

"Here I was, thinking that I was some kind of a revolutionary instructor who'd single-handedly shaped the landscape of the current generation. But in truth, I probably did more damage to it than good. I'd even venture a guess and say that the world would have probably been much better without me meddling in it than with."

"Was I really that horrible?" He asked with a pleading and hopeful tone. Darvia could feel it too. She knew what he wanted to hear. But she couldn't bring herself to give him that false salvation.

"Yes," she declared decisively. "You were."

The older dwarf crumpled both physically and emotionally. It was as if the last ounce of pride left in him dissipated like a deflating bladder.

It was at this moment, that Darvia grasped the complete picture, and the cause of the Elder's current state. The fact that he was confronted in public did offend him, at first. But the repeated affirmation from the crowd had planted a seed in his psyche, that had somehow sprouted and overwhelmingly smothered all the anger and vengeance that roiled in his mind.

He suddenly had a thought, "What if it was all true?"

The Elder had effectively lived within an echo chamber of his own design. His ratty and toxic attitude had cultivated an aura of inapproachability - basically building an invisible force-field around him that repelled everyone. Furthermore, his verbally abusive approach with an utter lack of patience when it came to teaching made students who was even more submissive and evasive (like Darvia used to be). These two simple facts worked in tandem, ensuring that if Elder Bolin was doing something incorrect, there would be noone to point it out.

Furthermore, as he'd thought over multiple generations of dwarves. Through virtue of quantity, a few out of the many managed to make it big. These successes were mathematical inevitabilities akin to throwing a hundred blunt darts against a wooden board - something HAS to stick statistically speaking. But these isolated incidents were instantly built up to be deliberate success stories in the Elder's mind. And of course, these success storied never returned to the Elder to give him a piece of their minds. After all, once you escape the viper's nest, why would you voluntarily return there?

But now, through coincidence, the bubble that was the Elder's ego had burst violently, forcing him to confront the shortcomings of his ways. One after the other, he was forced to relive his mistakes. He realised that the way he'd spoken to children was abhorrent. If it was his own son who recieved such a treatment, he would have skinned the offending party alive and disemboweled him.

This realisation was a slippery slope that dragged the man into an endless abyss of self-realisation and self-loathing, extending towards his achievements that were actually warranted - namely, his creations that once hung on the walls of his house.

"I don't like you, Elder Bolin," Darvia stated matter-of-factly. "I feel that you are far too arrogant and rageful. You are someone with a toxic personality. But that doesn't mean that I don't respect you."

Seeing a faint glint in Elder Bolin's eyes, Darvia continued, "You're one of the greatest Empaths to have ever lived, and an amazing Smith and Enchanter. I also admire you for your unbending will - you never give up no matter the odds."

"In some ways, I hold a sense of admiration for you as a dwarf. Though I hold little affection for you as a teacher," Darvia reiterated. "But the fact that a series of harsh criticisms turned you into such a mess has be reconsidering my feelings for you..."

"Everyone makes mistakes," Kano cut in while nodding to Darvia's words. "Realising them is the first step. Wallowing in them will only lead to a dead end. My father always says, if you learn nothing from your failures, then you've failed incorrectly."

These words caused a stir within Elder Bolin which, due to his advanced cultivation, was reflected on the surroundings as the mana domain shuddered faintly. The depressed dwarf stood up from his seat, approached Darvia slowly, and grabbed her gently by her shoulders.

"I should be the one apologising, Darvia," the man said humbly. "I apologise for the emotional damage I have caused you. I fooled myself into thinking that a harsh hand would turn you kids into better versions of yourselves. But how could I, a smith, forget that working a piece of metal excessively will only make it more brittle."

Darvia's eyes started to bubble up with tears as she quickly averted her gaze and escaped from Elder Bolin's weak grasp.

The Elder revealed a bitter smile before looking at Kano.

"You too," he added. "You also deserve an apology. I am sorry, Kano my boy."

Kano beamed with a carefree smile and flashed a thumbs up to the dwarf.

Finally, he looked at Kam and said, "I know that given my previous performance, you will be apprehensive towards my next request. But if you are still willing, I would love to have a second shot at teaching the kid the Dwarven ways. That is, of course, if you still feel comfortable leaving the lad with me. No pressure intended."

Kam frowned as he said, "This isn't something I can decide on my own, Elder Bolin."

"I understand."

"In the meantime, we would all love it if you could return to your post at City Hall," Kam gently reminded. "The people there miss you."

The last sentence lingered in the air like a ghost. And at the same time, at the City Hall, the Empaths who'd been celebrating multiple consecutive days of the Elder's absence all sneezed at the same time - a troubling omen...

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-447:}[next >]


