@document.meta
title: Chapter 425 - Unusual Punishment
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-03-03T22:27:39+0400
updated: 2024-04-23T23:27:25+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"This is growing quite brutal," Wei Zao commented, which was surprising. He had
seen much worse since coming here, but something about the rawness in the
confrontation between the two teens was... unsettling.

"It is necessary," Guy responded with a morose tone. "But rest assured, they
are in no danger."

Wei Zao was a bit taken aback by Guy's confidence. Before he could voice his
question, Guy looked towards him and said, "Any damage that is beyond
superficial is an illusion. So is their pain."

This did not clarify Guy's doubt. And as though he were reading his expression,
Guy opened his palm and from it escaped a small cloud of what Wei Zao
recognised to be mana. Mana that was attuned to his specific cultivation.

The cloud started to swirl before it condensed into an apple. Guy played around
with it, tossed it from one hand to the other, before tossing it towards Wei
Zao. As he caught it, he was surprised by just how realistic it felt in his
palm. The smooth texture, the fleshiness as he squeezed it a little, even
breaking it in two with his bare hands caused a fresh spray of juice to
disperse into the air. He gave in to the temptation and took a bite. The sweet
taste overwhelmed him as it somehow reminded him of the apples he used to eat
back on his original world. He could practically taste the genetic modification
inside! Oh, and the mouthfeel, it was exactly the same!

But the truth became evident the moment the chewed-up paste made it past his
throat and into his oesophagus. At that instant, the lump just dissolved and
dispersed, as though it didn't exist in the first place.

"What was that?" Wei Zao asked, his eyes wide in surprise.

"It's hard to explain," Guy responded. "I'll do so in due time. But right now,
I have to maintain focus on these two."

"I don't understand the need for such aggression," Wei Zao commented. It was at
this moment that Markus performed an unfettered roundhouse kick on an already
discombobulated Gaige. The sound of bone striking the skull reverberated and
caused everyone in the crowd to cringe in second-hand pain. "Are these two
enemies from a past life or something?"

"I think I am to blame for this," Guy admitted. "As my influence in this fight
increases, with me diverting a lot of the damage, they are losing their
inhibitions bit by bit and are choosing to go for more and more fatal gambits.
I can recreate the pain they are facing, but only to a certain degree of
realism. That roundhouse, for instance, should have done a lot more damage,
possibly fracturing Markus' shin and causing a severe concussion for Gaige. But
I diverted the movement so that it only grazed them. The sound is then
recreated and so is the physical after-effect. But in that translation, even
though it is precise, there is still some loss. And while that valley is
narrow, it carries the most valuable chunks."

The fight continued down a dangerous path. Outwardly, even Wei Zao was growing
unsettled by how animalistic the two had become. They were losing all semblance
of civility. And the moment Markus turned up the gravity through some spell Wei
Zao could not decipher, things turned for the worse.

The boy walked up to Gaige with a book in hand and started to go at him, all
the while taunting him. After the third hit, Guy grunted in irritation, "Okay
this has gone on for long enough."

He performed a gesture with his hands that caused the atmosphere to grow
denser. Wei Zao could feel a foreign mana domain taking over, which he deduced
to be Guy's. And as this domain enveloped the combat arena, he noticed that the
two had grown bloodier with each combatant evacuating mouthfuls of blood. Gaige
was still subjected to a few more hits with the book before he was knocked out
cold, and within seconds of that, so did Markus.

With the two out of the picture, the domain dissipated and the arena cleared
up, revealing the truth. In fact, nothing so bloody had happened. The duo were
barely scuffed, but the arena had suffered a significant amount of damage.

"I don't think this was fair," Wei Zao said while approaching Gaige and heaving
him over his shoulders.

"This confrontation was unnecessary," Guy expressed. "Your student was trying
to prove something for you, and Markus was trying to prove something for
himself. Did you think it was needed?"

"Well..." Wei Zao drawled. "It is a matter of pride, isn't it?"

"I don't think blood needs to be spilt for that," Guy said while shaking his
head. He carried Markus in a similar manner and walked out of the arena,
"Alright, I hope everyone has something better to do than gawk around!"

The crowd dispersed with a groan of disappointment. There was just something
viscerally entertaining about a fight that spoke to the animal living inside
every human. It just makes you want to stop and observe, even if it has nothing
to do with you.

___

Markus and Gaige awoke at the same time and saw each other's faces right as
their consciousness returned. In fact, they were in neighbouring beds in the
infirmary.

After suppressing a bout of disgust, the first thing they realised was that
they weren't in as much pain as they expected to be in, given their state at
the end of the spar- if it even could be called a spar.

Thinking over it caused them to simultaneously shudder with anxiety.

""How long was I out for?"" They asked, once again in unison, before going
silent.

"That final spell of yours," Gaige said finally, "How did you cast it? Its
effect was quite similar to my void-infused mana, though it felt... purer."

"It's because it captures the crux of what your void-infused mana attempts to
replicate," Markus answered. "Have you never wondered why the force exhibited
by your mana and the force acting on you right now, keeping you from floating
away, feel the same?"

Gaige shook his head.

"It is because they are the one and the same," Markus declared. "But your
void-infused mana is a bastardised version of it."

"Okay-" Gaige was about to retort angrily but Markus interjected.

"It is the truth. How much do you actually understand about your Bloodline and
the power inherent to Abyssal Wyrms? Not much, I'd bet. In truth, your
understanding of its power is flawed - biased. It isn't darkness that you are
wielding, but a force so strong that not even light can escape its clutches,"
Markus continued.

"What nonsense!" Gaige spat angrily.

"So you claim," Markus responded with a sneer. "But why is it that I am able to
wield the same power as you AND counter it?"

Gaige had no response to that, as there was truth in that claim. His palm
curled into a fist as frustration started to bubble over. "I underestimated
you-"

"And that was your mistake," Markus cut in. "Every single day since I lost to
you, I have been preparing for this opportunity. To finally prove to myself
that I am deserving. I am worthy! I told you, expressly, to not take me
lightly. And if, as you say, you underestimated me, not only have you
disrespected me, your opponent, but also your Teacher."

"That is enough, Markus," Sect Leader Larks' voice admonished as he entered the
infirmary. Behind him, followed Teacher Way.

"I don't think I have to voice my disappointment at your behaviour on and off
the arena," he continued.

"Your demeanour was crude and barbaric," he said in a low growl, causing Markus
to shrink. "This was not how I taught you."

"I'm sorry, Master, I-"

"There is no excuse," Sect Leader Larks cut in. "It is abhorrent. And I have
informed Grace of thi-"

"No!" Markus exclaimed with evident fear oozing out of every pore on his body.

"She will be handling your punishment. To that end, I am taking you out of your
task force."

"But Master, what about the kids?!" Markus protested.

"You aren't the only mage in this Sect," Sect Leader Larks answered while
shaking his head. "Marie will be picking up from where you've left off and
Shuri has offered to step in as well."

"As for you," he said while looking at Gaige. "You were first to raise your
sword with a fatal move. In a way, it was you who escalated this
confrontation."

"I-I-"

"That is my fault," Teacher Way cut in. "It is evident that there are some
failures in the way I have taught him."

"That is not true! I just..." Gaige took a deep breath and said, "I just let my
emotions get the better of me. I should not have done that as it went against
the spirit of a spar - which is to exchange pointers. I will accept any
punishment for my behaviour."

Sect Leader Larks observed Gaige for a moment before turning to Teacher Way,
"Should I exercise my authority as the Sect Leader or do you have anything in
mind?"

Teacher Way spread his arms and shook his head, "We are guests here, and we
violated the hospitality that was extended towards us."

"In that case, you will have to sit through the same punishment as Markus,"
Sect Leader Larks concluded.

And as he left with Teacher Way, he turned around one last time and revealed a
smile that nearly bordered on sadism.

"We just received a fresh shipment of onions," he hinted which immediately
elicited a loud groan from Markus. Gaige thought that maybe it was the nickname
given to the cruel form of torture this Grace person would inflict on them.

"By the way, who is Grace?" Gaige asked Markus.

"I am Grace," a woman's voice grunted from behind them. The second door to the
room slid open and a stout woman walked in with a scowl that could kill a
person. She beelined towards Markus and grabbed him by his ear.

Ignoring the boy's pleas for mercy, she dragged him out of the room, leaving
Gaige by himself.

'I guess I should follow them,' Gaige thought to himself.

___

"When he said 'fresh shipment of onions', I thought it was some sort of code,"
Gaige said between a sneeze as he rubbed his blurry eyes with his sleeves.

"I can never understand how onions can still tear you up even after you've
advanced into the Foundation Establishment realm," Gaige groaned as he applied
his sword skills to finely chop onions.

"Just shut up and keep chopping," Markus said while sniffling. "My goodness, I
think my eyes are going to fall out!"

"I think you should stop yapping and divert all that energy to your hands!"
Grace interrupted while rapping them on the back of their heads. "There're
still a few more sacks left."

"Why are we chopping so many of them?" Gaige protested.

"Are you the chef here?" Grace volleyed rhetorically. "I didn't think so. Which
means I don't have to answer to you. Now get chopping, boy!"

Gaige had never been subjected to a punishment so bizarre. And although it was
fairly benign compared to what he expected punishment for the digression he'd
committed would be, he definitely did not want to undergo this punishment again
in the future.

'How embarrassing...'

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-426:}[next >]
