@document.meta
title: Chapter 426 - Surprisingly Smooth Sailing
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-03-06T00:30:36+0400
updated: 2024-03-09T15:43:45+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Hours before Guy and Wei Zao chastised Markus and Gaige, they congregated in the waiting room at the infirmary after plopping the two unconscious combatants at their respective beds.

"That sure was... something," Wei Zao said as he sat down.

"That would be a nice way to put it," Guy chimed in as he assumed a seat beside the man.

The two exchanged a gaze that conveyed a myriad of thoughts in parallel.

"So, what's the plan?" Wei Zao asked, anxiousness evident in his tone.

"Well, we have to make those two understand that what they did was wrong-"

"You know that isn't what I was talking about..." Wei Zao interjected.

"What do you want me to say?" Guy responded with a tired sigh.

"That maybe you have a plan?" Implored Wei Zao with a hopeful look in his eyes.

Guy shook his head and said, "Then I would be lying to you. Truth be told I'm just as stumped as you are. It's not like they have a manual out there that explains, in detail, what one must do in case of an even at the scale of a universal apocalypse."

"I don't want to die... again," Wei Zao declared with a wavering voice, but one that was filled with certainty.

"Neither do I," Guy supported. "But right now, I have very little time to hunker down and focus all of my resources on that threat. Do you remember the rift that occured around the same time we were brought into Tron's space? Well, the same rift seems to have displaced two kids from my Sect."

"It sucked them in?"

"That's what the evidence suggests," Guy said with a nod.

"Are you sure they're still alive?"

"We have reasons to believe that they are safe and sound," Guy answered vaguely. This elicited a raised brow filled with suspicion from Wei Zao. Guy clarified, "We have a seer in our Sect. We had another one who was in the Tesseract Transformation realm as well, and they (in some uncertain terms) corroborated this claim."

"Hold on!" Wei Zao yelped. "Did you say you have a Tesseract Transformation realm mage in this Sect? What the actual fu-"

"'Had'," Guy corrected with a wry smile. "They... passed away recently."

"Then you must have their Inheritance Artefact!" Wei Zao continued with a sparkle in his eyes.

"They did not leave one," Guy answered while furrowing how brows. "Their death was under... special circumstances."

"Cut the crap and give it to me straight, man!" Wei Zao said with a growl. "We're both in the same damn boat so just drop all this subterfugal bullshit. It's not like I'm going to run away with all of your secrets and try my luck elsewhere! Heck do you think anyone worth their mettle in this world would believe a single word from me if I started spouting nonsense about worlds colliding and freaky monsters sucking the life out of everything?"

Guy snorted mirthfully and apologised, "Sorry about that. I've had to maintain caution since my arrival in this world. I guess the habit sort of became ingrained at this point. But no, you are right."

And so, Guy explained everything he knew about Mage Nara and Marie, including what was publicly known about their powers and the Heavenly Eye. And throughout the process, Wei Zao's eyeballs started to incrementally burst out of their sockets in suprise.

"You had an overpowered individual like that - who could quite literally tell you your entire future - hiding away in your Sect this entire time?" He snapped. "I've only ever heard of mages in the Tesseract Transformation realm. I've never met one actually, in real life."

"I didn't force him to stay," Guy defended. "He chose to be a part of the Sect through his own volition."

"This is crazy..." Wei Zao mumbled. "How do you do this?"

"How do I do what?"

"How do you convince people so well?" Wei Zao expounded. "And don't tell me that it was all a coincidence, or luck. Man I travelled through day and overnight for over three days straight to join you, because for some reason I trusted you more than I did myself. You made me do that - your words did. And I refuse to believe that a mage who has lived a hundred times longer than both of us combined would throw his lot in with any random nobody. He could very easily have absconded with Marie, and yet he didn't."

"I don't think I can answer that question," Guy said with a shy smile. As he pondered over Wei Zao's cursory analysis and sweeping conclusion, Guy began realising that maybe there was some weight to the claim.

In sales, there is a term called a conversion rate. It evaluates the success rate of a sales team, and is calculated as the percentage of successful sales over number of leads. That is, if a team has a hundred leads, and of those hundred leads they managed to convert eighty-eight into customers, the conversion rate would be 88%. If Guy were to evaluate his own conversion rate, he would place himself at a hundred percent. Everyone Guy had set out to convince and align with, he'd done so successfully. Till now, Guy had yet to face any opposition from being denied something.

"I guess it's got to do with the things I pursue, right?" Guy thought out loud. "I don't go after things that are out of my reach. And I don't push when I feel that doing so would expend more that the rewards gained from it."

"You make it sound so easy," Wei Zao mumbled. "But tell me honestly, has there ever really been a setback in your progression after to landed in this world? Let's put aside your first loss, which wasn't really in your power to begin with since you had little choice in that matter."

Guy thought it over. He really did not. Every step of the way took him forward. Never did he have to retreat and try again.

At this instance, Guy remembered a phrase spoken by his father.

"Even when pursuing things that are reachable, I don't think we can have a hundred percent success rate in being able to achieve them. Setting attainable goals in only one part of the puzzle. Having the means to achieve them, and the capability to see it through are also important. You were born with all the means you could ask for - which was the only thing not truly within your controls. I did that, for you. Now it falls on you to do the rest. Set goals that are attainable and realistic, and persevere to see them through."

But Guy's success streak here WAS a hundred percent. And the crazy fact was that he did not have the means - not always. But he was never shortchanged in any pursuit through a lack of it. Whenever he wanted something, someone was there to help him acheive it. To build and secure his Sect, he had the help of Teacher Jeeves and Mage Nara. To help him grow his business - the Verum Trading Company - he had the assistance of Furion and all the resources his family had to offer. And of course, had it not been for Karmin Zola, the owner of the Burning Forge, he would not have been able to launch off his career.

Even recently, had it not been for Mage Maddi and Shay-Hade, he would not have been able to secure a source of physical education and martial arts in his Sect.

Was it all a coincidence?

Maybe. But in truth, you come accross people with expertise in particular fields all the time. There isn't really a lack of experts in martial arts in this world - Guy could walk into a city and find a handful within just the first hour.

The trouble wasn't in finding people, but convincing them or recruiting them to be of your assistance. The world worked on interest. No one offers assistance if there is nothing to gain from it. Barring the truly philanthropic individuals who do so for no personal gain, the world is a calculating entity. The balance sheet had to, as the name suggested, balance. When one gives, they must receive something of equal value. But even that was an idealistic claim to make, because even in these trades, one side is always handed the shorter end of the stick. Nothing was every fair.

So technically speaking, Guy should, in theory, have received the shorter end at least once. 'Not even once...'

What would Mage Maddi gain from taking Kili under her wings? Satisfaction? Was satisfaction worth turning into an unpaid trainer of an entire cohort of teens? Guy had practically scalped her and Shay-Hade. He was using their skills for his own benefit, and they were none the wiser.

What would Teacher Jeeves gain from helping him out to such an extent? 'A way to soothe his intrigue?'

Maybe, but Guy was sure that in this instance, Guy did not have to invest anything at all, he just had to continue living his life as he had always been doing. Teacher Jeeves, on the other hand, had invested almost everything.

'Why is this happening?'

Guy wasn't deluded to think that there was some plot armour lining his path with such conveniences. There was something in play that was tipping the dice in his favour - something practically sinister.

At that moment, Guy noticed Revian walking in. He had sent the boy on a short errand to fetch Grace. He looked at Revian and then at Wei Zao. He initailly planned to approach the man with a request. A request to take Revian under his wings and train him in combat. With him having a veritable encyclopaedia of combat arts originating from this world floating in his soul, there could be noone more capable than Wei Zao to take on this task.

Though now, Guy started thinking. 'With what confidence did I just assume Wei Zao would accept. Was this arrogance?'

But something inside him kept telling him that it wasn't arrogance, 'It was a certainty.'

Wei Zao would accept.

Guy decided to test out where this confidence was stemming from.

"While you're staying here," Guy started. "I would really appreciate it if you could do me a favour."

Wei Zao's brows perked up in surprise. "Hasn't even been an hour since we met and you're already askign me for a favour?"

"I'm sor-"

Wei Zao waved his hand and chuckled, "I'll make myself useful in any way that I can. What is it?"

Guy nearly choked on his words. Cautiously, he proposed, "I need to borrow your expertise in combat to help a Sect Member out."

"Revian!" Guy called. "Meet my colleague, Teacher Way."

Just as Revian bowed, a crescendoing laugh cut through the sombre atmosphere.

"A Foundation Establishment mage who is also a cripple," Wei Zao exclaimed. "Just what madness have you concocted in this Sect, Guy?"

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-427:}[next >]
