@document.meta
title: Chapter 432 - A Natural "Reserve"
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: Volume 6
created: 2024-03-30T22:41:09+0400
updated: 2024-04-24T23:51:22+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

The woman retrieved a book large enough to cover her entire torso, its leather cover worn smooth with age. She flipped through the oversized pages, a faint rustle echoing in the still air of the room. Dora's eyes widened as she saw the hyperrealistic drawings –  anatomical diagrams, sketches of strange creatures, and yes, there –  a picture of...herself?  No, not quite. Her, but simplified, the colors less vibrant, the edges too smooth.

"That is what you are," the woman said, tapping the image with a long, slender finger. "A human. The Gard's historians were positively frothing to take a closer look at you, yet I held them back. You're welcome."

A squat, a curious tilt of the head. Dora felt a flush rising in her cheeks. This woman, this elf, studied her as if she were a particularly strange insect. Her gaze, while bright with fascination, carried an undercurrent of…disdain? No, not quite. Something more detached, like a child observing an ant colony.

The elf's hand darted out, a blur, and Dora yelped as her cheeks were pinched and stretched. "A bit more elastic than I thought. How fascinating…"

"Dat hurtsh!" It came out more whiny than Dora intended. She retreated, rubbing at the offended skin. The elf only chuckled, a light, bell-like sound that grated on Dora's already frayed nerves.

"Would you like to see my pets?" The question was sudden, the elf's eyes alight with an overly sweet enthusiasm. Dora blinked, thrown further off-kilter. Pets? Was she about to be shown dogs with iridescent fur or rainbow-feathered birds?

This wasn't just confusion.  It was the sinking feeling that she'd been cast as the exotic creature here,  the unknowing oddity in an elaborate, and potentially dangerous, display.

"Would you like to see my pets?" The woman asked with an excited sparkle in her eyes. The enthusiasm bubbled over so aggressively that the discombobulated Dora agreed involuntarily. She barely blinked, within which time she found herself being dragged through the halls of the sprawling timber mansion she was residing in.  Sunlight filtered through emerald leaves draping over an arched skylight, casting dappled patterns across the worn mosaic floor.  Her eyes caught a half-hidden inscription on a massive doorframe, the words barely legible beneath a patina of time."

For one, she was still confused over what had happened within a short span of time, was still digesting the fact that she was no longer in the same planet, was recovering from the sudden unconsciousness, and finally trying her darndest to keep up with the rapid movement of the woman.

Dora was deposited, by the literal definition of the word, at the edge of a vast, ancient forest that bordered the mansion.  Colossal trees with bark like shimmering onyx stretched into the twilight sky.  A narrow path wound away from her, half-obscured by phosphorescent fungi and strange, bell-shaped blossoms. 

Once again, as she absorbed her surroundings, she was slightly shaken to experience the unflappable silence. The gentle breeze rustling the leaves of the trees rang empty. It was the fauna that prevailed in this sea of green that gave it life.

But that was only partly the truth. Dora could hear movement - the familiar skittering of insects and the heavy beating of feathery wings. The forest WAS populated, though paradoxically it lacked life.

The woman stood proud, with her arms resting on her hips. She let out a shrill whistle by curling her lips behind her teeth, and the forest that appeared calm started to rumble with energy. Within seconds of the woman's call, one creature after another started to come out of the woodworks.

The first to appear was a lemur-like creature, that was about the size of Dora's upper arm. It had large ears and beady eyes, with fungi-like growths coating its pale, furry skin. Its long prehensile tail that was three times its size swung around lazily as the creature leapt from branch to branch until it landed securely on the woman's extended hand.

"This is an Echo Sprite," the woman said. "This is an Echo Sprite," the creature repeated with an uncannily similar voice.

"They are rare creatures that were hunted to near extinction for the special fungal growths that flourish on their bodies which has special catalytic properties. Only a few of these remain in the wild," the woman explained. "They have no combat capacity."

"It is cute," Dora commented as she tried to pat the creature. Though as she carressed its soft and supple ears, Dora could feel its warmth, but she could not feel its life. It did not behave the same way any creature would when being showered with such gentle scratches. Instead, it was faintly mechanical, as though it was awaiting confirmation before making any movement. And most interestingly, the creature was completely silent. It did make noises, it evoked animalistic gibberish, but it did not express itself.

Dora suppressed a frown as the woman let the Sprite clamber up a nearby tree, and called for the next creature in line to roost on her extended arm. This time, a flying creature swooped in, though Dora could not make out what it was. It came as a shadow that skipped the woman's arm and dove into the shadow that extended by their feet. Then, a tendril of darkness started to creep up the woman's legs before beelining along her body towards her hand.

After that, to Dora's suprise the shadow took material form and pooled into a blob on the woman's arm, until it extended outwards and two black wings took shape. A beak and the rest of the bird's form materialised next, and it immediately preened itself through instinct. The bird was Dora's height, and completely dwarfed the woman, yet she held it up with little to no trouble as though the creature was weightless.

The bird's eyes were empty, or maybe the eyeballs were a deep shade of black. But apart from that, the creature also felt empty, like the others before it.

"This is a Shadow Wing," the woman declared. "And it is the last of its kind. These creatures run opposite to standard logic. They are born immortal, but the more they cultivate a grow, they gain mortality. The mana core of a cultivated Shadow Wing can be used to craft potions that refresh a mage's age - kind of like resetting time - but keep their cultivation fixed. You can imagine why it is almost extinct now."

"Do you also keep it here to refresh your cultivation?" Dora asked, and although she expected the worst case answer, she faintly hoped that the woman wouldn't be so cruel.

"Of course!" She declared as per expectation. "Why else would I sacrifice so much resource on this thing?"

"But its the last of its kind-"

"And it shall be of great use to me when its time comes," the woman completed. She then let the creature dart away.

After that, Dora was placed in an awkward position as the woman half-enthusiastically and half-proudly displayed her collection of creatures. Almost all of them were either endangered or near-extinction, meaning they were important representatives of their species. The reason for their current predicament was that some vital part of them held the key to rituals, potions, or enchantments that aided mages.

And what disgusted Dora even more was that they weren't being kept here for the pure reason of preserving their species. They were kept here in order to be used as, to put it plainly, fuel for the woman's growth and advancement.

Ultimately, although the woman labelled these animals as pets, they were nothing more than poultry or livestock raisedfor slaughter. At least the latter two had the dignity of being used in their entirey, Dora was doubtful that the woman would deign to eat Echo Sprite meat after extracting all the fungal spores growing on its skin.

After a lull hit the woman's introductory parade, Dora decided to voice a gnawing suspicion, "Where is Fancy?"

"Who?" The woman responded while clicking her finger for the next creature to approach her.

"Fancy! She was with me-"

"The insect?" The woman interjected, her voice growing markedly colder. "Why do you want to know?"

"Umm... I'm just worried-"

"That won't be necessary, I shall take good care of it," the woman cut in, once again.

"But-"

"I thought you said she didn't belong to anyone," the woman snapped as she turned abruptly. She walked up to Dora, causing the girl to take a few steps back hastily. She tripped on a stone outcropping and fell on her bottom.

"She doesn't belong to anyone..."

"They I am free to do what I want with it," the woman said forcefully.

The woman's coldness cut deeper than the forest chill. Dora scrambled to her feet, heart pounding. Had she unknowingly said or done something to provoke such a shift? Yet, Fancy's fate gnawed at her. She needed to do something, but every instinct screamed at her to remain silent.

As if to shatter the tension, an unearthly roar pierced the air. The elf woman grinned, her teeth startlingly white. “Now, this one’s special,” she said. A creature, larger than the rest, lumbered from the shadows. Fur the color of rust coated its hulking form, and its eyes, mismatched and glowing, were fixed on Dora. A deep, rumbling growl echoed in its chest.

"What is that?" Dora whispered, fear constricting her throat.

“A Cullbear. Extremely agressive, and equally powerful. They grow stronger the angrier they get, making them annoyingly difficult to tame," She patted the Werebear's flank, the creature shuddering under her touch. "I'll have him broken soon enough. Now, about that insect of yours..."

She climbed over the Cullbear's shoulder, which was at least four times her height as it stood on its hind legs, and onto its neck. "It is perfectly safe. Do not go looking for it. My attendants will care for you in the meantime."

After throwing out that command she kicked her mount causing it to yelp slightly and move according to her wishes. As they retreated into the forest, Dora's ears twitched as she heard something amidst the growl.

"H-Help me..."

It was the Cullbear - its voice was weak and extremely bleak.

___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-433:}[next >]

