@document.meta
title: Chapter 435 - Break the World
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-04-06T21:22:51+0400
updated: 2024-04-15T21:22:22+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Thalias found it quite intriguing how the girl completely ignored the gruesome nature of their surroundings and wholly immersed herself in his recounting of history. She had pulled up the torturer's stool and placed it next to him and was resting her chin on her arms that were supported by her knees.

"Well...The Age of Isolation was a catalyst for ruin within Elven Society. Our wealth and power flowed from trade and alliances with the Human Kingdoms. We'd grown dependent, however loath we are to admit it. Our economy had taken root in the soil of that dependence. When contact ceased, the ground crumbled beneath us. Rippling waves of instability crashed through our realm, cresting in three realm-encompassing wars, fought in quick, bloody succession."

"Though I wasn't alive to witness them, the historic records paint a stark picture – the same picture, regardless of origin. Carnage and death are the ink spilled across every page. History, they say, is written by the victors. Yet, these records, agreeing so completely on the wars' devastation, scream a different truth: there were no winners here, only survivors staggering beneath the weight of unfathomable losses."

Dora visibly shuddered as she imagined the ensuing conflicts and bloodshed, through her immature mind could only fathom a minor fraction of what it truly was.

"It was also at this time that the rift between those with the ability to contract beasts and those with a limited ability to do so but to a limited capacity started to grow wider," Thalias placed this thesis and paused to see if Dora understood what he had said until this point.

"Elves are born with a naturally strong soul, compared to humans or even dwarves for that matter. We like to say it is the consolation prize we were awarded for our inferior physique. Though realistically, this was probably the result of years of natural selection. To survive in the Fae Realm, having a strong physique is not enough because the beasts that roam these lands, skies and waters can trounce all of it without breaking a sweat. Heck, a newborn Behemoth can go toe-to-toe with a Foundation Establishment realm mage!"

"The first elves to tame beasts and take advantage of their borrowed strength managed to propagate their favourable traits, resulting in what we have now," Thalias elaborated. "But that does not mean that every elf is born with a naturally vast soul to be able to tame a menagerie of beasts."

"A soul's strength directly correlates to the amount and nature of beasts someone can tame. A more sentient beast, and one that is more resistant to taming can result in a greater stress being placed on the tamer's soul. On the other hand, a beast that is familiar and accepting to a potential tamer will place a lesser burden. In the past, it was customary for tamers to thoroughly befriend their chosen beast and build a trusting relationship with them before eventually forming the contractual soul-bond. But in times of war, when the number of entities on the battlefield determined the outcome of the battle, having as many beasts on the field was paramount. And one had to make the most of the limits they were born with."

Thalias's expression darkened slightly as he structured the next part. A single domino was all it took to push society to its current state. A single, distasteful domino.

"Let's say you have a box that you need to fill with bricks to carry it from one palce to the next. The box has a limited volume, and the bricks are of varying and irregular shapes. It becomes clear that you can only fit a few variations of these bricks inside the box before it can fit no more. This was how things had been for a long time. However, some 'genius' realised that you didn't have to carry the bricks as they were from one place to the next. He found out that you could break the bricks back into powder and fill up the box with much more that you could originally if they were whole."

Hoping that such an allusion would be enough to make Dora understand the implication, Thalias paused to let his words sink in. Unfortunately, Dora couldn't make the connection, and her expression remained vivid with rapt interest. Thalias revealed a bitter smile and elaborated, "They found out, that if you... break the spirit of the creatures you intend to form a contractual bond with, the load on the tamer's soul is drastically reduced. It was a controversial revelation, but one that was quickly adopted because at times of war, morality is often overlooked for practicality."

This got through to Dora as her expression turned sour with shock and disgust. "You don't mean-"

"The process of breaking in a beast is inhumane, to say the least. Well, it wasn't as horrific as what they would put beings with higher sentience through. Take a look at what she was doing to me!" Thalias pointed out. "The more aware someone is, the 'heavier' their soul. Which means that they need to be broken in more thoroughly. Of course, elven society had some form of forced servitude before the Age of Isolation, but the new discoveries made during the wars really propelled the scope of such procedures. The third war is often referred to as the War of the Thralls, because the blood spilt wasn't by those willing to spill it, but by those forced to do so."

"That's horrible!"

"Very much so, and it is during this period that Elven society was torn asunder from within," Thalias continued. "Let us put aside the vile act of breaking a creature and enslaving it. Now imagine that you did the same with another being, someone who was exactly like you. And as I said earlier, those with the inherent ability to contract a large number of beasts were usually also the ones at higher positions of power during the war, and it was those at the lower rungs who ended up succumbing to such horrific procedures and became enslaved. After all, consent became an after-thought during the war..."

"People resisted," Thalias emphasised. "No one willingly becomes a mindless slave of another. However, I would like you to recollect the state you found me in. This was the torture people would be put through to make them more susceptible to a soul contract."

Thalias could see that at this point, Dora was practically at the edge of her seat. As a child, her emotions were glaringly painted on her face, and she was practically seething with rage. The story which she thought would be fantastic and intriguing took a dark turn and was turning out to be one that caused her blood to boil.

There were certain social constructs and mechanisms that children find difficult to comprehend. Racism, for example, isn't something children fully understand. It isn't that they are oblivious to the racial differences between people, what they don't fully grasp is the matter of why a certain race or skin colour must be imposed with certain prejudices or disadvantages, as opposed to others. In these matters, the child resorts to the base instinct of monkey-see-monkey-do. And in that way, the parent's or environment's prejudices become imprinted on the child, until they come of an age where they can reason behind their beliefs and possibly shift it.

Slavery is another concept that children cannot fully grasp, as it requires an additional layer of empathy, and an understanding of the concept of social hierarchy. Truth be-told, Dora wasn't seething over the way the elves were treating their own kind, she empathised more deeply with the beasts. And after seeing how Thalias was being treated in order to facilitate a soul-wipe and subsequent enslavement contract, her mind kept imagining the treatment Fancy was being put through. Because knowing Aurwen's character, Dora could say with absolute certainty that the woman wouldn't rest until Fancy was her's to control.

"It was during the third war, and in a moment of desperation after being imprisoned by his own General to be turned into a thrall, Garrick the Tainted, a half-elf, merged his soul with his tamed Bladewing Avian," Thalias revealed. "Garrick the Tainted was borne of a human father and an elven mother. His father was executed for... defiling his mother, and his mother died giving birth to him as her psyche had broken after undergoing the harrowing ordeal, and later falling on the receiving end of the jeers from society. He was called Tainted, without a surname, and was shunned from society. But he was a talented beast tamer, and his Bladewing Avian fell many enemies in the first and second war. And it was this skill that made him desirable."

"The Avian was the only beast he ever tamed in his lifetime, and he refused to follow the instructions of those above to forcibly enslave other beasts. This placed him on the General's crosshairs, and he was court-martialed," Thalias said with a steely tone. "You should know, that in living a life of solitude and disgrace, Garrick placed a lot of trust and affection on his tamed beast, as it was the only entity that cared for him unconditionally."

Dora nodded approvingly at Thalias's retelling of Garrick's decision. He revealed a smile and said, "The process of merging souls isn't a hidden secret. It isn't preferred because it is a gamble, and it is irreversible in nature. The entities being merged must be of similar heart and mind, or else it will fail, and the aftermath is unimaginably gruesome. Garrick had nothing to lose, and neither did his beast. And luckily, their merge was successful. In doing so, they obfuscated their shared soul, which in turn made it impossible for him to be turned into a thrall. After suffering weeks of torture, Garrick escaped, and took his squadron along with him in the dead of the night."

"The third war ended soon after, with elven society acheiving a tenable peace," Thalias expressed. "But the renegades led by Garrick soon started to movement. It wasn't so drastic as to trigger a fourth war, but it has been growing ever since, and we - the followers of Garrick's 'way' - have carried on his mission to protect the world from becoming enslaved by our own kind. Because believe me, if left to their devices, the elves WILL break every living creature in this world."

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-436:}[next >]
