@document.meta
title: Chapter 419 - Mutually Advantageous Arrangement
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-06T20:43:13+0400
updated: 2024-05-19T00:22:32+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"Elder Bolin! What brings you here... so late... at this time of the night?"
Kam mumbled, his voice diminishing with anxiety with each word uttered. His
wife had disappeared altogether, choosing to hide away in the kitchen (even
though she knew that Elder Bolin could still observe her with his mana sense).

"I couldn't help but overhear your struggle," Elder Bolin declared
thoughtfully.

"Struggle? What-"

"About the boy's education," he said. "Fret not, I am willing to take that
responsibility off your hands."

"Excuse me?" Kam sputtered.

"You're welcome," Elder Bolin responded with a satisfied smile.

And then there was silence.

"Umm," Kam muttered while scratching his forehead in frustration. "Elder Bolin,
I'm not sure I understand..."

"This boy," Elder Bolin said while pointing directly at Kano. "I will teach him
personally. I will bring him up to speed with Dwarven culture and history, and
handle his core studies."

"I don't think such special attention is warranted..." Kam said with a wry
smile.

"Do not worry, I will be teaching him at my home," Elder Bolin added with a
magnanimous wave of his hand. "I won't trouble you to host me. As I know that
it will be burdensome for Darvia."

"It won't be any trouble at all!" Kam retorted immediately, though in truth he
did not mean a word of the exclamation. He was hoping, secretly, that the Elder
wouldn't go back on his declaration.

In turn, he was immediately assaulted by a scrutinising gaze from the old man.

"You are a few centuries too young to fool me, boy," Elder Bolin snapped with a
loud growl. "I hear what people say behind my back, I just choose to overlook
it since I cannot always inhibit my senses from being receptive."

Two loud gulps resounded in the room, one of which that was still audible even
though it originated from within the kitchen.

"So do you agree or not?" Elder Bolin urged impatiently. "Since you two are the
official guardians of the child, I need your approval. So let us be done with
it."

"Ask him why!" A woman's voice rasped in a loud whisper. Kam flinched in his
seat in shock and turned his head to see his wife peeking through the door and
looking straight at him.

"You can ask me yourself, Darvia!" Elder Bolin admonished.

The door closed immediately and the sound of footsteps hurriedly receding
resounded from the other room, which caused both Elder Bolin and Kam to sigh.

"Why does she behave this way?" Elder Bolin.

"She is afraid," Kam blurted out.

"Afraid? Of me? What have I done to her that warrants such behaviour?" Elder
Bolin said with a scoff.

At that moment, Kam's pupils glazed over as he relived his torturous childhood
while under Elder Bolin's tutelage within mere seconds. As he returned to the
present time, his whole body shivered with anxiety.

"She's just a bit more sensitive than most," Kam quickly explained, and before
the Elder could dig deeper he asked, "Though I do wonder why the sudden
interest in educating Kano here."

"I don't need to answer that question," Elder Bolin concluded while folding his
arms in defiance.

"I apologise if this offends, but Kano IS technically my ward. And as my ward,
I am responsible in many ways for his well-being. I can't in good conscience
send him to the home of another adult if I do not know what their intentions
are with him," Kam explained.

A staredown ensued between the two adults. Kam struggled to maintain eye
contact as Elder Bolin's gaze somehow drilled straight into his insecurities
from his childhood. Surprisingly, it was Elder Bolin who broke eye contact, as
his sight faltered and attached itself to Kano whose head was oscillating
between Kam and Elder Bolin with evident confusion.

Kam let out a cough and said, "Why don't you go inside, Kano? I have to talk
with Elder Bolin in private."

Kano nodded before jumping out of his seat and going the way of Darvia. Elder
Bolin awaited with closed eyes until he was certain that the boy was out of
earshot before saying.

"I'm sure you noticed my state near the end of the boy's recount of his
history," Elder Bolin said, cutting right to the chase.

"I do not-"

"Let us skip the lip service," Elder Bolin barked. "I made a fool of myself
there."

"So you understand my hesitance," Kam emphasised. "It was the boy that caused
it-"

"It was my own shortcoming," Elder Bolin interjected. "I didn't know I had this
weakness inside me, the boy simply brought it forth to my attention. I should
be grateful to him. What if I had exposed this weakness in a more precarious
setting?"

"I actually followed your footsteps after you left the City Hall," Elder Bolin
admitted. "My intrigue was piqued, and I couldn't detach myself from it. I know
that it is a violation of your and your family's privacy, so I apologise."

"The boy is different," Elder Bolin continued. "Unique. Maybe it's a quirk of
his species. Although Dwarven blood flows through his veins, he is (at least in
appearance) a human being. There is very little to go on about those species.
All we have are recounts of the horrible treatment our kind was forced to
suffer through in their service."

"We thought that through the years, we had grown stronger and superseded our
past oppressors. Which is true. Enchantment and smithing advanced by leaps and
bounds since the Age of Isolation. Yet, one false assumption we made was that
the humans would remain static while we advanced ourselves."

Elder Bolin scooted closer and whispered, "If a little child, a mere whelp of
their species without a once of cultivation inside him can reduce me to a
snivelling mess, just imagine what an adult could do? Imagine what havoc a
proper human mage could wreck!"

"My true intention is an exchange of knowledge, of sorts. I will teach him our
ways and turn him into a proper dwarf all the while learning more about the
humans," Elder Bolin explained conspiratorially. "For the first time in many
years, a human has stepped into the Fel Realm. I am certain that others are not
far behind. And when that time eventually comes, I don't wish to be caught with
my undergarments around my ankles."

Kam hummed along while rubbing his beard.

"Alright, I will have to consult with Darvia, but I don't think she will be
against this," Kam proposed before extending his hand for a shake. Elder Bolin
revealed a victorious smirk and grasped the extended hand.

___

A few hours before Elder Bolin arrived at the Bruin household, he'd been
drowning in his own tears while he was crumpled into himself like a worm,
writhing on the floor of his office.

It had been so long since he'd wailed like this that he'd forgotten how to calm
himself. And so, he pretty much cried until the emotion itself tired out. In
doing so, he was left in a hyper-calm, self-critical state. He'd never
experienced this level of serenity before either, which kind of freaked him
out, but he was far too centred to express that.

In this moment of complete mental clarity, a question prompted in his mind.

"Why did I cry just now?" He asked out loud. "I've heard even more
heart-rending recounts and haven't cracked nary a frown. Yet the boy's simple
recounting completely shattered me!"

"No, wait! Maybe that's the problem. Maybe it isn't as simple as I make it out
to be. There must be something hidden in his words that triggered this
reaction. But what exactly was it?"

Gram then cradled his bushy chin and went over the entire story, verbatim. As
he did so, he could suddenly feel his throat becoming choked up.

"Okay, here it comes..."

After another five minute's worth of crying miserably, Gram once again sat down
on his chair and pondered over the story. Though this time, he played it
smarter and didn't take it in all at once. Bit by bit, he revisited the
recount, deconstructing the prose to its minutiae.

A dwarf's life revolves around stories. It is a core aspect of their lifestyle.
A child learns its morals through stories, and an elder passes down their
knowledge through stories.

Gram had lived for a very long time, and in his lifetime he'd heard a large
collection of stories, true and false, grand and meagre. But upon closely
inspecting Kano's words, he realised that there was a massive discrepancy in
the way in which his story was constructed as opposed to how the dwarves
crafted their own tales.

The dwarven way of storytelling involved immersion through the senses.
Therefore, the primary focus is on establishing the environment and the
characters. After all, if you want an audience to be immersed in a story, you
want them to be able to perfectly recreate the scenario in their mind.

For instance, when talking about a grand hunt for a Golden Drake, a typical
tale would start by establishing the primary characters - the hunters - their
personalities, preferences, motivations, and so on. It would then move on to
describe the path the characters would be taking, the arduous nature of the
journey, and what they saw, smelled, heard and felt. Once this was properly
established, it would move on to build the narrative.

But Kano's process skipped that altogether, as he honed in directly at the core
of the story.

"Something like... a central idea, yes," Gram expressed with a snap of his
finger. "The entire story is built around a central idea. So in the case of his
earliest memory, it revolves around hunger. It also touches on morality and the
grey area when it comes to labelling an action as right or wrong."

"And the flour cakes and clay," he muttered. It seems that it also plays a
significant role in building the narrative.

As Gram contemplated on this, he suddenly felt something stir in his core,
which had been stagnant for many years now. The feeling was so euphoric that he
involuntarily let out a moan in satisfaction.

"Wow! It's been so long since I felt that" he said while breathing heavily.

"There's definitely something here," he said while tapping his desk with his
fingers. "Maybe this is how the humans have developed their story crafting. If
so then it will be a valuable skill to assimilate..."

His mind ran for a while as he pondered about something before his palm slammed
the table decisively.

He rose from his seat and walked out the door with focused steps.

"It is clear," he murmured as he exited the City Hall. His eyes honed in on
Kano hanging on Kam's back many kilometres away to the East. "The boy is the
key to my future."

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-420:}[next >]

