@document.meta
title: Chapter 457 - Sprinting
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-07-20T12:17:34+0400
updated: 2024-07-21T23:18:49+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

It didn't take long for the group to get ejected out of the collective illusion. No one was prepared, as suddenly the very furniture they were sitting on dispersed into dust and mist. They shot a betrayed look at Guy who returned an innocent shrug while saying, "That wasn't me. One of you messed around and triggered an event I hadn't accounted for."

Then, they collectively jerked their attention to Shuri who had collapsed onto her buttocks with a manic expression in her eyes. She looked at her compatriot's accusotary gazes and proceeded to eke out an apology but was immediately halted by Marie who said, "Don't say it if you don't mean it. We all know that if given the opportunity, you would do the same thing again."

"You could have taken it slower," Tes complained. "We were just getting up to speed with the device. Not everyone's mind functions at the same cycle-speed as yours."

"You just used cycle-speed in a sentence unironically," Shuri said with a grin while standing up. "I think you have familiarised yourself enough. There is such a thing as being overfamiliar; it tends to introduce bias."

The group collectively sucked the inside of their teeth in annoyance.

"Come on, now," Shuri redirected. "No point wasting time. We have work to do."

___

Work resumed at a fever pace after the illusory revelation, or glimpse into an alternate future for some.

They stumbled often while trying to assume the pace prescribed by their Agile board. There were frequent clashes and tasks that were placed on hold while others upstream were still awaiting completion. But within two weeks, the team moved in lockstep, where the lead time between subsequent tasks was completely minimised.

"Since everyone's here, I think we can begin sprint planning for the next two weeks," Shuri declared while knocking on the table with her knuckles.

Almost immediately, Tes raised his hand and expressed, "I'd like to move the borrow-checker from the Icebox into scope-"

"For the last time," Shuri interjected. "Implementing a borrow-checker is an exercise in excess. It isn't necessary for a basic working concept."

"I strongly, disagree. The ArcaneScript syntax that is used to handle dynamic memory allocation is extremely unwieldy and prone to leaving memory addresses blocked off. If the programmer forgets to de-allocate the memory from heap, it will remain there, and will eventually cause the system to slow down significantly," Tes argued. "I think implementing mechanisms to track dynamic memory allocation during compile time and switching from ownership of dynamic memory addresses to a 'borrowing' paradigm will alleviate this potential risk."

"While true, the overhead that will be potentially required to perform the borrow check during compile time will be far too complex for the current system to handle," Shuri reasoned. "And it will scale as the code itself grows more complex. They are better off just turning the system off and then on again to clear off the temporal memory."

"I did some initial calculations," Tes responded while moving a roll of parchement to Shuri. "The relationship is not directly proportional between algorithm complexity of the code and the borrow-checker. Regardless of whether it is Big-O of n, n-squared, n-log-n, and so on."

Shuri shook her head and rebutted, "Complexity doesn't refer to the algorithm, but the code itself. What do you think will happen if you have a function calling a function calling another function, each transferring a parameter through them? You will have to traceback the scope of this variable ensuring that it isn't being moved out of scope somewhere in between and the ownership of the the heap-allocated variable is being transferred properly through its journey."

Tes went silent and contemplated on Shuri's reasoning.

"Look, there will be time to add this feature to the compiler at a later date when our hardware can handle it," Shuri compromised. "The borrow-checker will remain in the Icebox until such a time comes- BUT, you can move onwards while keeping the potential of a future integration in mind."

Tes grumbled under his breath while acquiescing to the decision. But Shuri ignored it and moved on, "Speaking of the compiler, how's the optimsation faring? The test code I provided generated a convoluted mess the last time I tried compiling it."

"The result was effective though," Morise, the girl who was the team lead for the Compiler, expressed exasperatedly.

"Just because it is effective doesn't mean that it is optimal," Shuri rebutted.

"Why does it matter if its optimal or not," Morise argued. "You shot down Tes' idea even though he was pursuing optimality."

"Tes' optimisation is on the user-side leading up to the compiler. If the user doesn't know how to use the tool properly, its the user's problem. But if the tool fails to perform the task it is expressly created to do, then its a failed tool. Suboptimal compilation leads to excessive resources being allocated on the lower-level to execute the task," Shuri explained sternly.

"I get that," Morise said with an acquiescing nod, "but its quite... difficult. We are struggling to generalise the process. Tes managed to rework the compiler to optimally compile the test code you provided, but in doing so it breaks our other tests."

Shuri tapped the desk in thought for a while before turning to her other side and asking another boy seated on the roud table, "How is the Core Programming going?"

The boy slid forward a parchment and said, "They're getting the hang of it, now. The rate of mistakes or failures has dropped considerably to at most one in two days."

"That's good," Shuri murmured. "Okay, then I will me allocating myself to the Compiler team for the time being. It is evident that we need to restart from scratch..."

She then reluctantly moved towards the agile board and moved the ticket labelled "Borrow-Checker" from the "Icebox" section to the "In-Progress" section.

"Wait!" Tes exclaimed. "We're going to do it?"

"Might as well," Shuri conceded with a tired shoulder-shrug. "While we're optimising the code, we can figure out a way to squeeze it in. With an additional brain, we can afford the deviation."

The meeting continued for two entire hours as the group cemented their plan for the sprint that would last for two weeks. Once done, the group stormed out of the room with haste.

"They run as though they are being chased by ravenous beasts," Marie commented.

"I can understand their frustration," Shuri said with a groan. "I am not a fan of these sprint-planning meetings."

"And yet you hold them."

"Because they are necessary," Shuri reminded. "It is part of the process."

"You could alter it to your requirement," Marie suggested.

"One needs to be familiar with how a loaf of bread is baked before asserting their own twists into it," Shuri responded. "Depending on how this project is finalised, I will have a better understanding on how to approach the next one. The agile process will evolve based on that. In fact, it is just these horrendously long sprint-planning meetings that grate on my nerves. Overall, I am quite pleased with its outcome."

She pointed at a rather large binder at the centre of the table and said, "The documentation is thorough. Do you know the benefit of this?"

Marie nodded and said, "Not everyone is born with a brain such as yours. With a written train of the teams challenges, failures and successes, any future project where such similar challenges are faced will be resolved more seamlessly;."

"Exactly!" Shuri expressed with a snap of her fingers. Then, after a few minutes of silence, she said, "This will all go towards my Magnum Opus."

She extended her arms out and declared, "The Artificial Brain."

"Didn't you already create that?" Marie probed with a confused tilt of her head.

"A brain does more than just store information," Shuri dismissed with a wave of her hand. "It need to reason. Create logical connections. Innovate!"

"And you think its achievable... something like that? From my research, there haven't been any instances of intellgent core engineered- purely core engineered constructs in history. Maybe magborgs, but that's basically like tacking on a prosthetic to an entity," Marie said.

"That's because they have been going about it all wrong," Shuri retorted. "People think that intelligence is a byproduct of having a soul. It is, in fact, derived from an observation of the behaviour exhibited by reanimated corpses via necromancy. A powerful necromancer is able to create truly intelligent reanimations because they imbue a portion of their soul in to it. The soul carried with it a weighted copy of their intelligence if we can quantify intelligence in some way."

"Core Programmers try to recreate this intelligence by trying to create an artificial soul that can be imbued into their creations. As far as I know only a handful have reached the cusp of being able to achieve it. Most believe since these giants made it this far, standing on their shoulders will let them bridge that gap. But the truth is that it is unbridgeable," Shuri declared.

"What's your point?" Marie said while rolling her fingers, urging Shuri to reach her conclusion.

"The soul, whatever it is, is something that has been formed over millions upon millions of years of evolution," Shuri proposed. "To try and recreate it in an infinitessimal fraction of time is pure arrogance. We need to use an alternative strategy."

"An alternate strategy being..." Marie emphasised while elongating the syllable.

"I happened to stumble upon a book deep within the Library," Shuri said in a hushed voice. "I thought it was some sort of psychological piece teaching you how to memorise stuff more efficiently, but turns out, the people from Sect Leader Larks' original world were already dabbling with the notion of an artificial brain."

She then reached into her satchel and handed Marie a book that was title: "A Deep-Dive Into Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning"

"Where do you find these books?" Marie blurted out with a mirthful snort.

"The Library has the answer to all of our problems, Senior Sister Marie," Shuri said jokingly. "I suggest you spend some more time in there."

===
___

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-458:}[next >]
