@document.meta
title: 21 February 2023
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-29T11:08:22+0400
updated: 2024-02-21T16:13:53+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* To-Do

  - (-) Flash custom firmware into Saluki V2
     -- ( ) Touch base with Yashraj to determine what is needed from the HiTL
  - (-) Discuss how to implement the fault injection functionality in dronsole
     -- (-) Prepare for meeting with Esko and Ilkka
  - (-) 22nd February, PPT slides CalTech syncup
     -- (-) Practise and update for 5 minutes
  - ( ) 23rd February, Share Objectives (meet | exceed | percentage)
  - ( ) #RESEARCH Is it possible to automate ROS node generation.
  - ( ) #RESEARCH "Rule-Based Decision Engine"
  - ( ) Try dumping the fault data as {https://github.com/foxglove/mcap}[MCAP]
  - (x) Explore emergency landing trigger with GPS issues

* Journal

  - Checked out the failsafe and emergency landing triggers for PX4
     -- {https://docs.px4.io/main/en/config/safety.html}[Documentation on PX4-Autopilot]
     -- {:$/notes/technical/frameworks/px4.safety-configuration:}[Notes]
  - Sat in on {* Interview: Internship - Akram Khairi - SSRC}[Interview of Intern] 
  - Sent mail to Oksana Sandulenko with Intern Recommendation
     -- Sent to Systems Testing Team
  - Attended {* RTA Meeting}[RTA Meeting]
  - Attended {* Architecture and UI}[Architecture and UI] syncup with Solita

  ===
___


===
___

* Interview: Internship - Akram Khairi - SSRC  

** Attendees

   | Akram Khairi
   | SSRC
   | | Willian Lunardi
   | | Junior Sundar
   | | Oksana Sandulenko
   | | John Durotifa-Babatunde

** Minutes

   - Specialises in Mechanical engineer and Robotics (hardware mainly)
   - Some experience with Pixhawk/PX-4 for controlling motors of a land/water rower
   - Only some experience with generative AI
      -- Text-to-2D --> 2D-to-3D
   - Not suitable for team. May find it too out of the way.

   /Junior Sundar/
   - Applied research
   - Interest in creative problem solving while working within set limitations.
   - Working in existing frameworks and platforms.

* RTA Meeting

** Attendees

   | SRTA-AD
   | | Martin Andreoni
   | | Rayana Boubezari
   | | Junior Sundar

** JaGoals

   - Discuss progress

** Agenda

   - (x) Updates from above
   - (x) Discuss progress
   - (-) Update JIRA

** Minutes

   /Martin Andreoni/
   - Finish slides by today.

   /Rayana Boubezari/
   - If any hardware or people are needed plan in advance.


** Action Items

   - (!) Update Jira

* Architecture and UI

** Attendees

   | SRTA-AD
   | | Martin Andreoni
   | | Willian Lunardi
   | Solita
   | | Moamen Ibrahim
   | | Jarmo Hakala
   | | Philip Schmalen

** Goals

   - Dronsole
   - Mission UI

** Agenda

   - (x) Dronsole demo
   - (x) Mission UI
   - (?) Deployment

** Minutes

   /Jarmo Hakala/
   - Brief demo of Dronsole
   - Complete documentation for {https://github.com/tiiuae/airoplatform-docs}[Dronsole].
   - Mission UI Internal workshop
   - SRTA Dashboard (Safety dashboard)
   - Preflight checks
   - Model or product deployment

   /Willian Lunardi/
   - Speed up simulation?
   - Iterative missions?

   /Martin Andreoni/
   - Jamming location in UI
   - Human intervention or fully autonomous?
   - How much information and how to provide the information?
   - Display improvements.

** Action Items


* Syncup with Martin Saska

** Attendees

   | Martin Saska
   | Martin Andreoni
   | Willian Lunardi
   | Junior Sundar

** Goals
    
   - 

** Agenda

   - ( ) 

** Minutes

   - 


** Action Items


   ===
___

{:$/journal/2024/02/20:}[< previous] - {:$/journal/index:}[index] - {:$/journal/2024/02/22:}[next >]
