@document.meta
title: Scratch
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-31T22:14:51+0400
updated: 2024-05-05T17:24:25+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

___

* Murugan and Kratos Goodbyes

  "The world was in chaos, Guruji. The oceans were rebelling and so were the
  heavens. The dead had nowhere to go, and so the souls clung to decaying
  bodies like ghosts in a shell.

  "Why would you go there?"

  "It was time. As you have stated, I have learned everything that you can
  teach. Which means that our journey as Guru and Shishya has reached an end.
  And as per tradition, a Guru is to be given a Dakshina - an offering or fee
  for the teachings given. You said that you did not want anything, and that I
  should give you whatever I wanted. I felt that something that would remind
  you of the lands that you've come from would be a fitting gift."

  "There is nothing left there... Nothing alive..."

  "That's where you're wrong! Guruji," "You see, floating amidst the tumultuous
  seas, hanging arrogantly to life, was this lone colt. Look at his face, the
  sheer defiance and unwillingness to yield is visibly radiating off of him. He
  reminded me of you, to be honest."

  "An endurer. Hypomenon,"

  "It likes the name."

  Kratos appraised the colt with a wistful gaze. It could very well be the last
  remnant from his lands, apart from himself. Two relics from a dead
  civilisation. But what amused him the most was the fact that the gift his
  Disciple gave him was a horse, a creature bound to servitude to another.
  Kratos could see himself in the stubborn creatures unwavering gaze.

  "He will grow into a fine stallion. I can already imagine what it will feel
  like to ride him."

  "No," "This one isn't meant to be ridden. Thank you for the gift. I... like
  it."

  "Oh, but that's not all!" "I know it isn't fair to foist a living creature
  onto you. Its technically not even a gift, more like an additional
  responsibility. My actual gift was something else."

  "What is this?"

  "Let me help you put it on!" "Now will it to unfold while cocking your arm."

  "A shield!"

  "I had it fashioned to match the hoplite shield from your lands, with a few
  changes to make it more portable. As you always say, a shield is the most
  dangerous weapon in the hands of the right person."

* Alternate Timeline - Ocean of Blood

  The monster rampaged through the village, a grotesque tide of flesh and fury.
  None could halt its advance; homes became charnel houses, bodies ripped open
  like gruesome offerings. Each spilled drop of blood seemed to shudder and
  twist, birthing another abomination in the first's wake. Men, women,
  children—nothing was spared the creature's sadistic hunger. The monster
  descended on the village like a plague, and left a desolate tapestry of blood
  and shattered lives.

  The creature was less a predator than carnage incarnate. Its claws, like
  rusted butcher's hooks, shredded flesh from bone. Villagers weren't merely
  killed – they were disassembled. Limbs wrenched from sockets with nauseating
  pops, torsos cracked open like macabre eggshells. Those who weren't devoured
  outright became playthings – screaming puppets jerked and twitched by its
  smaller, frenzied clones. The air hung thick with the coppery stench of blood
  and the wet, fleshy sounds of feasting.

  The once vibrant and lively green grass that uplifted the village was now
  stained a deep red. And the river that fertilised and brought life to these
  soils ran thick with blood.

  "Oh Durga Ma, help us!" The priest begged as he prostrated himself before the
  idol of his Goddess. The figure in stone looked back, inanimate,
  unempathetic. "Save us..."

  Words in Sanskrit spilled out of his mouth in quick succession and with same
  familiarity as a swordsman trained since birth would swing his weapon - it
  was plain muscle memory. He'd done it over a thousand times in this lifetime,
  each time just as sincerely as the last. He never once had he expected the
  Goddess to answer. Yet today, he sincerely wished for it. He sincerely wished
  that the unbending stone would turn soft, and the goddess would step forth.

  After all, all it took was devotion. Unbending, uncompromising devotion.
  Devotion so deep that even the threat of death couldn't cause your heart to
  waver. This was how Prahalad managed to get Lord Vishnu to descend. Was his
  own devotion to his goddess any less?

  The priest did the only thing he was knew to do, pray. It was his calling
  since his birth, by passion and by caste. Even his first words weren't
  mother, or father, but it was 'Durga Ma.'

  Boy did it send his parents over the moon. They'd devoted their lives to Her,
  just like their parents, and their parents before that. His entire family had
  devoted their cause and lives to the Goddess.

  "Can you not hear your devotees wailing?!" The priest yelled. How could she
  not, even he could not hear his own voice over the blood-curdling yells of
  the denizens beyond the hallowed walls of the temple. Overlaid on this
  cacophony was the demonic cackle of the beast that reveled in this violence.

  "They're all dying, my Goddess! PLEASE! SAVE US!"

  And all of a sudden, the world turned still. The screams and yells just
  ceased, as if a heavy blanked was smothered over them all. Were his prayers
  answered?

  "Do you think she can hear you?" A gravelly voice said with a rumbling
  chuckle - a guttural growl layered with mocking amusement. The priest spun
  around, his heart pounding a frantic tattoo against his ribs. At the
  entrance, peeking through the open doorway, was the monster. It was far to
  big to fit into the hallowed alter, its face spanning half the length of the
  doorway itself, and its form a grotesque parody of life. Its vast bulk and
  heft strained against the ancient stones, its thick forearms rippling beneath
  blood-soaked skin.

  "Did she hear the thousands I've killed, drained and guzzled?" It added with
  a snort, and a spray of crimson speckled the priest's face. The monster's
  face stretched impossibly wide, with its cavernous maw crammed with jagged
  teeth the size of daggers. Blood and viscera clung to them, remnants of its
  most recent feast. Its maddened eyes, which hid behind narrow, reptilian
  slits that resembled that of a gharial, blinked twice as it measured him like
  a predator would prey. A forked tongue, slick and impossibly long, writhed as
  it tasted the air, savoring the scent of terror that clung to the priest like
  a shroud.

  "S-She won't let you off alive, Asura!" The priest challenged, though his
  shivering tone did smother the force of his declaration.

  "I would like to see her try, human!" The monster's laughter echoed, a
  grating mockery that made the temple stones seem to shiver. It withdrew from
  the doorway, its grotesque form receding into the gloom. Yet, its voice
  boomed on, "Fine! I will give you till the count of ten. Bring her here, but
  if you fail, your death will be most painful."

  Five of the smaller creatures (though that was only in comparison to the
  massive Asura as his smaller forms matched the priest in heigh), chittered
  and snarled as they scuttled into the temple. Their bulbous eyes fixed on the
  priest with a twisted hunger that mirrored their original. The priest
  collapsed to his knees, his spirit as broken as his body soon would be.

  He clasped his hands and the frantic prayers started forming on his lips even
  before his mind could process it.

  The Asura's voice echoed from outside like a a death knell for the priest and
  the shattered remnants of his hope. "Ten..."

  The first creature lunged and positioned itself in the priest's blind spot.
  The priest, eyes wide with terror, continued his desperate chant.

  "Nine..."

  He could smell the creature's foul breath and feel its spittle on his face.

  "Eight..."

  The Sanskrit verses that were once a source of comfort, now felt hollow,
  almost like an umbrella shielding against a cyclone.

  "Seven..." The Asura's voice boomed. The descending number hammered onto his
  dwindling hope with growing intensity.

  Another creature joined the first. It moved forward as its claws rasped
  against the temple floor. The priest's voice faltered as the screech
  interjected the underlying tune of his prayers casusing the sacred words to
  snag in his throat.

  "Six…" The number seemed to reverberate through the very air.

  The creatures closed in, their gurgling hisses mingling with the priest's
  ragged gasps. He could see their fetid breath steaming in the dim light, and
  smell the decaying meat lodged between their teeth.

  "Five…" The priest's prayer dissolved into a choked sob. Durga Ma, his
  beloved Goddess, had she abandoned him?

  The creatures crouched, ready to spring. Yellowed fangs glinted in the dark
  halls, promising not just death, but agonizing dismemberment. The priest
  squeezed his eyes shut, unable to bear the sight.

  "Four…" Time itself seemed to stretch, each second an unbearable torment.
  Yet, no divine light shattered the gloom. No celestial roar drowned out the
  creatures' hungry snarls. 

  "Three…" The priest's final prayer died on his lips. A bitter laugh choked
  out – was this the reward for a lifetime of devotion?

  "Two…" A rough, scaled hand clamped around his ankle, yanking him back. His
  head struck the stone floor, the world blurring into a swirl of pain and
  darkness.

  "One…" The Asura's voice boomed like a death sentence.

  He was dragged as he kicked and screamed like a desperate animal snared by
  predators. His fingernails clawed gouges in the stone, in a pathetic and
  futile act of resistance. His eyes, wide with horror, remained fixed on the
  idol. Durga Ma stared back, silent and unmoved.

  The last thing he saw as he was unceremoniously ejected from his temple, the
  place that was like his second home, wasn't the monstrous glee in the Asura's
  eyes, but the implacable stone face of his Goddess.

  "I don't see here here, human," the Asura mocked as he loomed over the
  priest. The forked tongue snaked out and started to carress the priests face
  as he spoke. Before a response could form on his lips, the legion of asuras
  around him lunged forward and grabbed his appendages and held him down. In
  panic, he looked around and noticed that one of the asuras was exiting the
  temple with the stone idol in its grasp.

  "I think a fitting end to you lot is in duty to the same gods you pray to. I
  may be a savage, but there is certainly some beauty in a poetic end," the
  fanged monster said as it picked the stone idol effortlessly with one hand.
  "Just as a Kshathriya must meet his end with a sword in his hand, so must a
  Brahmin with his head against an idol's feet."

  The monster raised the idol above its head and brought it down in one swift
  motion.

  Only, he didn't.

  That is to say, he couldn't.

  His arm froze by his chest, and his entire body began vibrating starting from
  the idol grasped firmly in his hands. His expression of malic dispersed,
  revealing surprise, until it settled in shock. And right as fear started to
  encroach on his face, the monster exploded into a confetti of blood.

  Yet once again, running contrary to natural laws, the blood did not spread.
  Instead, it started to congress into one spot above the stone idol that was
  mysteriously levitating.

  The priest looked at the gory sight with anxiety, though a tinge of hope
  started to eke through.

  Then, one after the other, each of the monsters holding him down exploded
  into a fountain of blood. And the blood turned into globules before
  converging towards the idol, above whom a massive ball of crimson was taking
  shape.

  As the ball grew larger, the sun started to set and the heavens started to
  bleed red as it turned a horrific crimson shade.

  The priest held his breath as the undulating mass of blood and gore slowly
  descended and completely enveloped the idol, and a blood-curdling symphony of
  ululation started to resonate in all three realms. Usually, this harmonising
  sound was a complement to a celebration or festivity - an auspicious act. But
  as the priest saw the ungodly crimson mass, he couldn't help feeling a
  foreboding sensation bubbling up from his gut. In his zeal to call forth the
  Goddess, had he called upon something worse?

  The ball shot up into the skies before dispersing into a mist of red that
  started to envelop the village in its entirety, essentially imprisoning the
  Asura and all of his lesser forms. The largest, and arguably his true self
  that matched the height of a small adult elephant looked at these sequence of
  events with a morose frown. Gone was his earlier psychopathic esctacy as he
  rended flesh from bone, and blood from body.

  All eyes that were attached to the living looked up into the zenith of the
  bloody dome, and observed a dark mass hurtling towards the ground. The priest
  saw the object grow larger, and larger - it was approaching him! He
  immediately scuttled and rushed towards the safety of the temple, and barely
  made it before a loud thud that rumbled the earth caused him to trip and
  stumble.

  He landed unceremoniously onto the stone floor and immediately shuffled
  closer, almost by instinct, towards the idol. But he only belatedly realised
  that the altar stood empty.

  The sound of the door hinges creaking drew his attention and what he saw
  caused him to nearly loosen the control over his bladder.

  A being drenched in viscous blood, with a skin as dark as coal, stood up from
  a kneeling pose. His eyes took in the nude form of what could only be a
  woman, but the visuals made him question if she was human. Her bare-breasts
  peeked from behind her matted locks that were caked in dry blood and viscera.
  She raised her two arms with jagged nails caked with dirt and gore, and
  parted her hair, revealing eyes that belonged to an apex predator - devoid of
  empathy, and brimming with violence and unfettered rage. Her crimson lips,
  that stood out against her ebony skin, parted to reveal yellow teeth painted
  red with pieces of flesh marring the gums.

  Her tongue slithered out and cleaned the blood and flesh, and she swallowed
  it as an ecstatic moan left her. She trudged forward before descending on all
  fours, and skittered forward with inhuman speed. With a leap she bounded the
  steps leading up to the temple and clung to the entrance, with all her limbs
  grasping at the frame.

  She tilted her head and licked her lips again, causing a deathly shiver to
  jolt through the priest's spine, as he felt an even more invasive sense of
  someone measuring him up as food.

  He prayed for mercy, but to whom? Was this beast before him his Goddess? Was
  this her true form? How was she any different from the Asura roaming the
  streets outside? At least he could be reasoned with, this she-beast was
  nothing short of an animal.

  But his thoughts were halted as the creature leapt from her perch on the door
  frame, and zipped in his general direction. The priest closed his eyes
  awaiting demise, but all he felt was a gush of wind rushing past him, before
  another loud bang caused him to flinch.

  Contrary to his expectations, the she-beast had one of the human-sized clones
  of the Asura in a death grip by its neck. She held it up effortlessly,
  causing its feet to lift off the ground. The asura struggled, waving the
  rusty talwar in his had, but the metal bounced effortlessly off of the
  she-beast's skin.

  The woman grabbed the demon by his scalp with her other hand and yanked hard,
  causing a disgusting pop to echo within the hallowed halls. The asura's blood
  sprayed out, but the woman opened her mouth wide, with her tongue out, and
  sucked hard. The blood, like a charmed snake, started to redirect from its
  downward trajectory and gushed towards her agape mouth.

  Not a single drop of blood touched the ground as she greedily devoured it
  like a person parched with thirst. The asura's body dried up like a fruit
  left out in the sun, until it was a mere fraction of its original size.

  Once the woman was finished, she gazed at the lifeless eyes of the beheaded
  asura with morbid interest. A squelching sound ensued as the side of the
  woman's abdomen deformed, as if something was trying to escape from it.

  The priest held back the contents of his bowel from escaping, as her flesh
  parted and an additional pair of arms burst out, coated in mucus and blood.
  The two new arms cut into the asura's belly and stripped it open. She then
  pulled out the intestines and expertly wove them into a rope. She jabbed a
  finger through the asura's ear and pushed until it came out the other ear,
  and then sent the rope through. She then hung the intestine with a
  head-locket around her neck. With the remaining length of intestine-rope, she
  pulled the demon's arms and legs and started to fashion herself a skirt, to
  cover her bare lower-body.

  After revealing a morbid smile of satisfaction, she crouched back on all
  fours and skittered out of the temple with a maniacal and greedy grunt.

  ___

  The Asura's years of penance and prayer to Lord Shiva had granted him a
  special boon. Every drop of blood that left him and touched the earth would
  spawn a new form - a clone of himself. The clones would grow stronger the
  longer they lived. They would grow larger, and more intelligent as well.
  Though the extent of their growth was capped to his original form.

  He was proud of this boon. It made him strong, unbeatable in open battle.
  Because no army could stand against him, and no human, god, or otherwise
  could win against him one-on-one. After all, after a few minor gashes, it was
  never truly a one-on-one. Was it improper, dishonourable? Who cares? The dead
  tell no tales. And those that remained living, all feared him.

  To the world, he was a force of unthinking brutality. One incapable of
  stringing together complex thoughts, and one who was driven by desire to kill
  everything that stood in his way by unleashing a torrent of bodies. That was
  fearsome enough, but that wasn't enough of a reason to fear him. The boon
  owned by the Asura brought with it a hidden ability that came as a pleasant
  surprise. This power was the ability to assimilate knowledge. Every being
  that spawned form his blood, was an extension of his self. In a way, they
  were him, and he was them. What they saw, heard, felt, tasted and experienced
  would become his once they were killed.

  It was through this power that he had managed to beat the armies of Heaven
  not once, but twice. The first time was through sheer luck and numbers. The
  devas had underestimated him. He was certain that it wouldn't be the case the
  second time. And his second victory was more profound. He'd managed to fool
  the general of the Deva Army not once, but twice in succession, resulting in
  an embarrassing and brutal defeat.

  The Asura was unstoppable, and his prowess had earned him a name: Rakhtabhija - 
  the one whose blood is a seed that spawns a forest of death!

  As long as wars were fought with weapons that spilt blood, Rakhtabhija would
  dominate... or so he thought.

  Within seconds, Rakhtabhija could feel a lot of his other selves getting
  decimated. As he was constantly being flooded with information from his
  clones, the influx of five or six deaths did not affect him. But then another
  came, and this was was brewing with an emotion he had never felt in years.

  Fear.

  He let himself immerse in the experience of the deceased clone and was shaken
  to see another demon. Truthfully, there was never camaraderie amongst his
  kind. Asuras are driven by benefits, usually. So it wasn't out of the
  ordinary that another of his kind would interfere in his pursuits. But his
  assumptions were immediately foiled as he backtracked through the memories
  and saw where she came from.

  "DURGA!" Rakhtabhija yelled, his voice laced with unending rage. Of all gods
  and devas out there, the one who he hated the most with unparalleled passion
  was Durga. She was the one who had killed his brother. She was also the
  reason he was razing this village to the ground.

  This was all part of the plan. He knew that this village, and most others
  nearby worshipped Durga ardently. He knew that given enough bloodshed of her
  devout followed, she would eventually descend from the heavens.

  And alas, she did. But Rakhtabhija was confused. The entity that descended
  from the idol didn't look anything like Durga from his memories. As loath as
  was to admit it, Durga was the embodiment of grace and splendor, while also
  personifying violence in all its forms. But this... being... sacrificed the
  grace and the splendor and doubled down on violence. Her appearance was
  animalistic, and inhuman; even to the warped aesthetics of an Asura, she
  elicited an averse response. It was in the way she walked, her predatory gaze
  that killed its targets in countless ways. Who was she?

  And then it happened, a mountain of emotions collapsed into him, as he was
  forced to live through the deaths of hundred versions of himself all in the
  span of a single second. And the worst part was that they all died the same
  gruesome way. The entity first drained him of his blood, until he was left
  with just enough to have his consciousness online. She would then eviscerate
  him, pull out his internal organs while licking it clean of every of blood,
  chopping his limbs and lucking his marrow dry, and then finally, as he was
  drowning in pain and agony, she would decapitate him. From a third-person's
  perspective, through the eyes of another of his forms, he would spectate as
  she added the limbs to her ever flourishing frock, and added his heads to the
  garland around her neck.

  She would go from one victim to the next in a fraction of a second, and
  sometimes, when handling version of himself smaller than her, she would use
  her additional appendages to slaughter two or three at the same time.

  Truth be told, this shouldn't have affected him so deeply, after all, he'd
  been slaughtered many a times before this in fighting against the armies of
  Heaven. However, there was a difference. In those confrontations, even though
  he was losing bodies left and right, he wasn't ACTUALLY losing, as more would
  readily replace him. To put it simply, there was always a net gain of bodies
  and he was on the side gaining the advantage as time passed. However, what
  was happening right now was pure slaughter. He was being hunted with deadly
  efficiency, and with a strategy that was tailor made to counter him. A sense
  of foreboding started to gnaw at him as he realised that there was a chance
  that he could actually die!

  The largest version of himself, which was also the one which carried the bulk
  of his true consciousness, finally caught sight of the being mowing through
  him like a farmer running his sickle over a field of wheat, and it did little
  to subdue his growing discomfort. Because she made it look too easy. She was
  disassembling him like a child playing with a clay doll, and all the while
  her eyes were locked in on him - she didn't even deign to look at her victims
  in their eyes.

  At that moment, the skies turned a murderous shade of scarlet red, even more
  so than the hue exuded by the turning of twilight. The being was now a few
  steps away from him, her body garbed in a skirt of his arms and legs. Her
  neck decorated with the eye-less, tongue-less, decapitated heads of his
  smaller forms. And in her extra appendages, rested two clay bowls filled to
  the brim with blood, which she expertly maneouvred disallowing a single drop
  from falling to the ground. She brought one to her lips and drank it all
  greedily, and then she down the next.

  She looked at him hungrily, with maddened eyes, and Rakhtabhija prepared for
  an attack, his heart beating up to his neck. But she did not move on him as
  he anticipated. Instead, she circumvented him and attacked another of his
  smaller forms. She was relentless. Her neck had rotated a complete
  hundred-and-eighty degrees, ensuring that eye contact was maintained a she
  ruthlessly culled them.

  Two additional arms extended from her sides and picked up two actual sickles
  from the detached arm of a farmer Rakhtabhija himself had killed. She then
  moved with the grace of a dancer, and ruthlessness of a lion.

  Rakhtabhija had partaken in many wars, and had personally observed and
  delivered many a brutal deaths. However, the brutality he was witnessing at
  the moment was sickening. Maybe it had something to do with the fact that he
  was personally seeing himself being reduced to nothing more than weeds!

  His passiveness suddenly dawned upon him, as he realised that he hadn't moved
  or acted in response to this new enemy. A wave of disgust drenched him in
  shame, and his ego admonished him for his cowardice. In fact, Rakhtabhija
  never had to personally intervene (at least not with his primary body) in any
  conflict. His lesser forms often took care of it. It was his first time
  seeing himself so thoroughly outclassed.

  "Demoness!" Rakhtabhija bellowed as he coiled his legs. He bit into his
  thumb, causing a torrent of blood to gush out. As it landed, it coagulated
  and swiftly turned into a viscous blob of dark crimson, until arms and legs
  started to form all around it. Then, within seconds, the blobs turned into
  tiny versions of himself. A heavy growl from him, caused these smaller forms
  to cower before they swiftly laid on the ground and held their neighbour's
  feet, tight.

  Rakhtabhija grabbed the largest of his creations and pulled him up. As he did
  so, the conjoined sequence of his smaller selves snaked and cracked like a
  grotesque bouquet-like whip. He grabbed this whip with his free hand and
  pulled through. As he did so, his smaller forms inflated and burst as their
  bones pierced through their flesh and skin. The result was an urumi made of
  bone and flesh. The blood that dripped from this impromptu weapon also
  coagulated as it touched the ground, creating more of him in the process.

  With a swift thrust, Rakhtabhija burst towards the sky and barreled towards
  the entity moving through his lesser selves near the centre of the village.

  The demoness had her yes trained on him at all times, and she returned a
  welcoming gaze as the separation between them narrowed swiftly. A few moments
  before impact, Rakthabhija whipped his urumi, and the barbed weapon flung
  forward faster than the speed of sound, eliciting an ear-shattering boom.

  The entity twisted in place, carrying another of his minions beside her and
  tossed it in his trajectory. The urumi collided with the hurtling body,
  causing it to explode into a million pieces of viscera. Yet she did not
  relent, as her mouth split open, tearing apart at her cheeks allowing her
  jaws to open at an inhuman angle, and all the blood and gore hurtled into it
  like a whirlpool. Once finished, her whip-like tongue peeked through the torn
  seams of her cheeks and cleaned up the blood dripping out of it.

  Rakhtabhija whipping the urumi at her hoping to inflict some damage. And to
  an extent, he succeeded, as she let the weapon wrap around her left arm
  allowing the barbs to dig into her flesh. He then pulled, so that the damage
  could be heightened, but contrary to his expectations, the woman resisted -
  she did not budge. In turn, she started to entagled her arms further into the
  weapon and started to inch closer.

  He had barely enough time to register the incredible turnout, when she
  suddenly yanked the whip causing him to fly towards her instead.

  Size-wise, Rakhtabhija was atleast a few heads taller than her... at first.
  Because as his ragdolling form hurtled towards her, he realised that she had
  grown, much, much larger. She grabbed him by his throat and squeezed, causing
  his eyeballs to reach the cusp of bursting out of their sockets.

  Her tongue snaked out of her lips and danced over his face. The sweat forming
  on his skin was thoroughly cleansed, and so was the blood. She revealed a
  predatory smile and opened her mouth, causing her cheeks to split once again.
  And with a single chomp, she consumed his head. The last thing he heard was
  his own skull cracking and splitting under the pressure before his vision was
  doused in darkness.

  Rakhtabhija's consciousness zapped into his second most powerful form
  immediately. It took him some time to reorient himself, and right as panic
  started to set in, he felt himself getting hoisted by his neck. The last thing
  he saw were the gaping maws of his predator before darkness consumed him.

  One after another, he found himself getting transferred from one form to the
  other, and each barely lasted for a second before his consciousness was
  ejected.

  Death was approaching, and he felt helpless to stop it. This was not supposed
  to be happening!

  And within the fit of panic, Rakhtabhija paradoxically found a moment of
  clarity. His subdued fight of flight mechanism kicked into action, and his
  mind started to process his exit strategies because, as evident as day, fight
  wasn't really an option. Rakhtabhija had been in far severe circumstances
  before, to be fair, but fear had overtaken his rationality rendering his
  ability to assess the combat instance obsolete.

  Rakhtabhija computed the trend hastily and immediately beelined towards the
  clone at the fringes of his sea of consciousness. This spot was usually where
  his weakest forms lingered, and due to the extent of their separation from
  the core of his sea, they tended to behave irrationaly, akin to beasts.

  A tiny Rakhtabhija, around the size of an adult's thumb, suddenly exited its
  bloodshed-induced reverie and swivelled its head frantically. It's gaze
  suddenly met that of the being who had just turned his previous vessel into a
  dessicated mess. She then got on all eights and skittered towards him with
  her tongue hanging out thirstily.

  He in turn booked it, and ran towards the forest at the edge of the village. 

  Right as he neared the trees, that towered over him like massive pillars
  extending into the heavens, and the lowly grass stood tall like large green
  sword blade. He pushed them aside and rushed through, right when the ground
  beneath him started to rumble. He turned just in time to see the she-beast
  pouncing towards him. His body froze as he anticipated his impending demise,
  but the dreaded event did not occur. Seconds passed and Rakhtabhija still
  remained breathing, in the same body.

  He slowly opened his eyes and saw the beast latched onto the trees in front of
  him like a spider, her eyes measuring him up like a ravenous monster. For a
  split second, her eyes looked far into the forest, before returning to him.
  Then, with a disappointed snortshe dismounted from the trees and skittered back
  into the village to resume her carnage.

  Rakhtabhija didn't know if he should feel grateful or enraged. Her blatant
  disregard for him implied that his current form wasn't enough to satiate her
  hunger. But given her behaviour, he couldn't fathom the fact that she would
  just let him go.

  But what options was he left with? There was nothing else he could do than
  retreat into the forest and regroup. And so, he continued his sprint, through
  grass and shrubs hoping to create as much distance as possible from the
  predator stalking him.

  After an hour of endless sprinting, Rakhtabhija tired himself out and
  collapsed into the ground. He looked up at the canopy that disallowed Surya's
  grace from showering the damp soils, and felt calmness settling in his mind.
  He had escaped.

  He had survived.

  "She must be another of Durga's machinations!" He cursed angrily, his voice
  sounding more like the mindless chirping of a rodent. "I will have my
  revenge, and it shall be equally brutal!"

  He then picked up a small pebble to his side and rubbed it against a boulder
  formation to sharpen in. Right as he brought it close to his wrists, his ears
  picked up a faint sound of grass waving.

  He perked his head towards the sound, and narrowed his gaze. There was no
  movement.

  But it came again, this time from behind him. His body jerked violently and
  he entered a crouched stance, staring frantically in all directions in search
  of the cause. The wind couldn't reach this dense region, so the only
  explanation was that something was stalking him.

  He started to crawl away, making sure to avoid broadcasting his lcoation with
  wild movements and loud sounds. Minutes passed without the sound recurring,
  but he didn't let down his guard.

  He found a small burrow and leapt towards it.

  But at the zenith of his leap, something caught him. Two large daggers
  pierced into his abdomen, and he felt himself getting shaken agressively. The
  dagger sliced through his bowels and he was propelled upwards.

  Once again, his trajectory was inhibited, as two large cushion like pads
  clapped together and crushed him. He was then slammed unceremoniously into
  the ground, and a massive weight bore down on him, crushing all his bones. He
  looked up, through the blood soaked eyes, and was met with the piercing
  pupils of a large feline. Or maybe it was an average-sized feline, but
  appeared large in comparison to his current stature. The creature was
  coloured a brilliant hue of orange, with black lines striping its body -
  almost like a tiger.

  It tilted its head, with mild amusement in its gaze, and licked him. The
  barbed tongue sliced into his body, removing every drop of blood that was
  oozing out and about to fall on the ground.

  Rakhtabhija was barely able to squeeze out a syllable, before the cat tossed
  him into the air and swallowed him whole.

___




