# Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup
tag:: #MEETING
collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
		- SRTA-AD
		- Solita
	- **Goals**
		- Update for demo
		- State of MLOps and SRTA module deployments
	- **Agenda**
		- Up to speed on the state of development of SRTA modules and such
		- Synchronise on deliverables for the demo.
	- **Minutes**
		- Template repository has been set up and running on Sam's system
			- Full training pipeline is unnecessary for demo, we can start straight from upload of model.
			- Template repository contains sample .bag files for testing purposes.
		- What drone is being targetted for demo?
			- Saluki V3
			- None in particular as it is regardless of frame
		- Segmentation -> Safe Landing is targeted for simulation only at the moment in a simulation world
- # RTA Meeting
  tag:: #MEETING
  collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
		- SRTA-AD
	- **Goals**
		- Demo update and timelines
	- **Agenda**
		- Discuss state of system in preparation for the demo
		- Set demo deadlines
	- **Minutes**
		- People need to go for the International Exhibition of National Security and Resilience conference in ADNEC.
		- Sakari: Building new fog-system and writing to a bootable USb to try and install into Saluki V3.
		- SRTA will be running inside the App VM.
		- Prepare a X500 as backup for far future -- not a priority at the moment.
	- **Action Item**
		- ((664498b2-da80-418c-ac4b-49c004bc01cb))
		- ((664499d6-f73c-49a9-bd7c-6d2ddd36eb87))
		- ((6644991b-cbe7-4882-9761-382fc01aeb4c))
- Next: [[May 16th, 2024]]