@document.meta
title: Scratch
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-31T22:14:51+0400
updated: 2024-01-31T22:40:44+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

___

* Murugan and Kratos Goodbyes

  "The world was in chaos, Guruji. The oceans were rebelling and so were the heavens. The dead had nowhere to go, and so the souls clung to decaying bodies like ghosts in a shell.

  "Why would you go there?"

  "It was time. As you have stated, I have learned everything that you can teach. Which means that our journey as Guru and Shishya has reached an end. And as per tradition, a Guru is to be given a Dakshina - an offering or fee for the teachings given. You said that you did not want anything, and that I should give you whatever I wanted. I felt that something that would remind you of the lands that you've come from would be a fitting gift."

  "There is nothing left there... Nothing alive..."

  "That's where you're wrong! Guruji," "You see, floating amidst the tumultuous seas, hanging arrogantly to life, was this lone colt. Look at his face, the sheer defiance and unwillingness to yield is visibly radiating off of him. He reminded me of you, to be honest."

  "An endurer. Hypomenon,"

  "It likes the name."

  Kratos appraised the colt with a wistful gaze. It could very well be the last remnant from his lands, apart from himself. Two relics from a dead civilisation. But what amused him the most was the fact that the gift his Disciple gave him was a horse, a creature bound to servitude to another. Kratos could see himself in the stubborn creatures unwavering gaze.

  "He will grow into a fine stallion. I can already imagine what it will feel like to ride him."

  "No," "This one isn't meant to be ridden. Thank you for the gift. I... like it."

  "Oh, but that's not all!" "I know it isn't fair to foist a living creature onto you. Its technically not even a gift, more like an additional responsibility. My actual gift was something else."

  "What is this?"

  "Let me help you put it on!" "Now will it to unfold while cocking your arm."

  "A shield!"

  "I had it fashioned to match the hoplite shield from your lands, with a few changes to make it more portable. As you always say, a shield is the most dangerous weapon in the hands of the right person."


