@document.meta
title: Chapter 2 - Crawl First, Walk Next, Run Later
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: Volume 1
created: 2024-01-29T23:04:13+0400
updated: 2024-02-17T17:48:58+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

What is living a "normal" life like?

Kratos pondered on that thought quite a bit, nowadays, given how he was
afforded an endless amount of time to just linger on his thoughts. Gone were
the days where he had to wake up before the crack of dawn and cycle through the
daily drills. He was also no longer required to brood over the next tasks
handed to him by the gods. Finally, he also didn't need to plot his vengeance.
That was a massive chip off his shoulder. He could now life out the so-called
"normal" life that everyone kept talking about.

But did he even deserve to live a "normal" life, after all he'd done?

That was always the question that followed the first. From a purely Spartan
perspective, it should be his rightful prize. After all, all that matters in
any war is the winner, and Kratos (for all intents and purposes) won. The gods
that wronged him were dead. The world that glorified said dieties was reduced
to ruins. Kratos won.

But what did he win?

The result of any war should be peace, right? But Kratos wasn't in peace. In
fact, his psyche constantly danced on the precarious edge of a blade. A blade
that, metaphorically, loomed over his neck and threatened to cleft it in two at
a moment's notice.

Kratos wondered if this was why Spartan warriors were forced to go through
gruelling and torturous training every day, even if there was no war in the
horizon. Because when left to their thoughts, they were forced to live the
horrors they had to commit in the name of their land. Because most humans are
born with a conscience, and one's conscience tends to be their harshest
critique. Because the conscience tends to veer towards committing suicide when
there was no way out of the guilt that consumed you, after realising that there
was just not enough soap in the world to wash away the blood that caked your
ruinous hands.

It amused him to realise that he was ultimately turning into an Athenian pansy.
All they did was waste away their days pondering over useless drivel, like what
is right and what is wrong, or why the human mind worked the way it did. A
Spartan's purpose is to *do*, not *question*.

But there WAS nothing left for Kratos to *do*. So what was his purpose?

According to the long-haired man, who had brought him back from the warm
embrace of Hades (if that even existed anymore), Kratos' current purpose was to
learn the language spoken by the people of the land he now walked.

On that note, Kratos learned quite a bit about his current position. For one,
the world he was in was called "Bharat". Upon questioning of the existence of
his homeworld, Greece, Kratos was told that it probably existed somewhere
westwards, beyond the fields and oceans of chaos that separated the planes.
There were words of Greek artefacts owned by rulers or powerful clans in these
lands, and they were rumoured to have been brought over by adventurous traders
who sought luck and fortune by crossing through the chaos.

The source of all this information, of course, was the long-haired man who was
also his language teacher. The man's name was Rama Bhargava, not a name or root
that Kratos was familiar with (which further drove in the point that he was no
longer in familiar lands).

"To make this sound, you need to aspirate while making the same 'k' sound,"
Rama explained while pointing at a letter that looked like घ.

Kratos growled irritatedly and barked, "That's how I pronounced it!"

"You aren't releasing air hard enough. If you don't do that, it will sound like
ग," Rama responded while shaking his head. "It's been over two weeks, Kratos. I
expected faster progress. We've barely scratched the surface, you still have
two other sets of alphabets to go through."

"Why are there so many languages?" Kratos exclaimed in frustration. "Where I
come from, everyone spoke just one."

"What does language mean to you?" Rama inquired, while placing the square
cutting of slate with the chalk letter written on it aside.

"It is a means of communication," Kratos responded. "Which means that one is
enough."

"Communication has different orders," Rama corrected. "The way you communicate
with your family may differ from the way you communicate with your friends. The
way you communicate with your child may differ from the way you communicate
with your superiors. Language changes when the person you are speaking to
changes, because what you want to convey changes and so does the way you want
to convey it. Language changes when culture changes, because what you share
most often differs if the life you live differs. The words and phrases a kind
may use amongst his ministers is vastly different from the language used by the
lowly peasant as he communicates with his neighbour."

"You talk alot," Kratos interjected as Rama took a break to let his words
settle.

"It's because you are a great listener," Rama said with a chuckle. "In fact, I
used two different languages in my previous 'rant'."

"Why?" Kratos probed.

"You know this is the first time you've ever asked that question," Rama pointed
out. "Why? What a great word it is. Many men more learned than I have said that
it is one of the most dangerous phrases out there, because it cuts right to the
core of everything. The cause!"

"Answer my question!" Kratos growled angrily.

"Fine, fine," Rama said. "No patience at all."

"People are born with purpose. A warrior's purpose is to fight for a cause he
follows and die in teh battle field. A merchant's purpose is to trade and
generate wealth. A peasant's purpose is to till the earth and grow crops. And a
priest's purpose is to perform religious rites, preserve knowledge, and guide
the development of civilisation as a whole. To that end, there are topics of
discussion that are common amongst one caste that aren't encroached upon by the
other. So there isn't a need for someone in, let's say, the Kshatriya (the
warrior or ruler) caste to discuss with the Vaishya (merchant or trader) caste.
Hence there isn't a need for the Vaishyas to have a language that spans
contexts ranging over discussions of statecraft, warfare and politic," Rama
explained.

"So why are you teaching me all three languages?" Kratos probed. "I don't
intend to communicate with rulers or ply myself in politics."

"How do you know your purpose?" Rama responded. "You weren't born here, thus
you don't have a caste, and so your purpose in life is fairly open."

"Who decides my purpose," Kratos murmured.

"If you were part of our cycle of reincarnation," Rama said while raising his
arms towards the skym "Then the world itself decides for you. But since that
isn't the case here, well, I guess you are free to decide what your purpose in
life is supposed to be."

"The language I'm teaching you right now is called Sanskrit," Rama continued as
he pulled back the slate board. "It is said to be the language spoken by the
world itself. It is said that if you can formulate a prose so profound in
Sanskrit, the world will respond in kind. The script I am teaching you is just
the surface. The beauty of the language runs deep. I'm afraid even I cannot
teach you all about it."

"So why don't we start simpler?"

"Because all other languages begin from this. This and Tamil, which is the
other language I will teach you," Rama emphasised while raising two fingers.

Kratos growled with a low rumble as he thought of the arduous exercise before
him. "All this knowlege is wasted on me."

"Poppycock!" The man snapped back. "Knowledge is never wasted. The more it is
distributed, the more it grows."

He then pointed at the rustling leaves of a tree nearby, and gently gestured
for it to come closer. Then, from within the branches, an apple floated towards
him.

"Knowledge is like this fruit here. It is juicy and sweet, filled with good
stuff. But amidst all the fleshy goodness lies a seed-" with a quick pull, the
apple was broken in two revealing the seeds within. "Now, the apple that
remains on the tree, withers and dies. But the apple that is eaten by the
common pigeon manages to have its seed carried with the bird as the creature
flies away. As the creature defacates, the seed is planted. In the faeces, it
finds sustenance. And once the heavens grace the seed with nurturing rain, a
new tree grows in its place."

He pointed at Kratos and revealed a mischeavous smile, "In our case, I am the
tree. The apple is my knowledge. You are the bird. So fly! Oh, great bird!
Defacate where your heart calls you and spread the beauty far and wide."

"You are a weird man," Kratos commented. "We will talk no more. Continue your
lesson now."

____

"Two. Apples." Kratos said to the panicking vendor standing behind his mobile
stall.

"#%!%$& apples are, one cowrie shell each," the man answered while raising two
shivering fingers. Kratos let out a growl before producing the shells to
complete the transaction. He then accepted the offered fruits and bit into one.
A faint, satisfied smile caused the corner of lips to quirk upwards slightly as
a thin trace of juice dripped down the side of his lips.

The sweetness of the apple lingered on Kratos' tongue. He took another look at
the red fruit in his hands. It appeared the same as the apples in Greece. It
was the same size, the same vibrant shade of red. And the sound it made as he
bit into it echoed with the same lively crack as the ones in Greece. But why
was it that this one tasted infinitely better than the ones from his home?

He took another bite, and let himself drown in the sweetness. Maybe it was the
lack of purpose, the lack of something that needed to be done, that let him
just dwell in the small things. Looking up, Kratos was once again enamoured by
the vibrant greenery. He was sure that the Greek forests were just as lively an
warm, but back home, Kratos wasn't allowed teh time or freedom to just look at
them.

Kratos' feet moved forward on their own. He observed the birds prancing around
between branches, building nests, courting each other. He followed the chatter
of the squirrels as they carried their favourite nuts to their horde. He caught
the infrequent deers peeking between the trees, running away as he approached
them. A strange sense of calmness washed over Kratos, a feeling he had only
ever felt once before and that too when was toeing the line between life and
death.

Another bite, and the apple was finished. Kratos tossed the core aside and
chomped down on the second one. But as he took the bite, he noticed that the
forest had terminated. Technically, it wasn't finished, it was simply a break
in continuity. A break that was caused by a massive ravine that cleft the
forest in two.

Kratos approached the ravine uninhibitedly. He approached the edge and looked
over into the near endless darkness that welcomed him from below.

His foot crept closer to the edge, causing a few small rocks to dislodge from
beneath him.

Kratos raised the half eaten apple in front of his palm. As his eyes focused on
the red, it started to ooze and drip out as a viscous fluid, coating his hand
crimson.

He blinked.

And he was no longer holding an apple in his hand. In its place, Kratos saw the
decapitated, hollow-eyed head of Helios hanging.

Kratos' grip loosened, and the head tumbled down the cliff with a sickening
squelch as it collided against the rock face repeatedly.

Looking around, Kratos saw the green forest turn red as fires started to
swallow all life, and the sky turn gray as storm clouds started to swallow the
sun ravenously.

He stood amidst the collapsing world and slowly closed his eyes.

His right leg extended forward, levitating precariously in midair. Slowly, he
started to shift his weight.

"There's nothing down there."

The voice brought Kratos back from his trance. The world wasn't burning, and
the heaven's weren't collapsing around him.

He turned his head and saw Rama walking out from the forest. The man approached
the ravine, beside Kratos and looked down.

"There's nothing down there," he repeated. "I've checked."

He then patted Kratos' back and added, "You see the struggle isn't in going
down, but coming back up. The rock walls are rather smooth and finding proper
hold is difficult."

"You talk as though you have done this before," Kratos commented, to which the
man returned a dull gaze and a empathetic sigh.

"Lunch is ready," Rama diverted. "Come quickly or else it will grow cold. And
don't do anything stupid."

And with that, the man strolled back into the forest and disappeared between
the treeline.

Kratos took one last look into the ravine and narrowed his eyes. Surprisingly,
he could now see the bottom and he could see the half-eaten apple shimmering in
the darkness, intact.

___

Kratos growled, the sound rumbling deep within his chest as he swallowed a
hand-rolled ball of rice drenched in lentils and vegetables.

"Don't make such unsavoury noises while you eat," Rama's voice carried a stern
warning, a sharp edge beneath the calm exterior. "Every grain of rice is a gift
from Annapurneshwari. So, even if you find my cooking less than palatable, at
least have the decency not to show it."

Rama's chuckle, light and mocking, filled the tense air as he gracefully
consumed another morsel of rice.

"The food is adequate," Kratos grumbled through gritted teeth, barely
containing his frustration. "But why is there never any meat? It's always
missing!"

"Meat?" Rama replied, his tone laced with incredulity. "Of course, there's no
meat. I'm a vegetarian, remember?"

Kratos' glare intensified, his eye blazing with a fury that seemed to challenge
the very notion. "Do not look at me with such disdain. Haven't you realized
this by now?"

"I assumed you were merely impoverished, unable to afford it," Kratos shot
back, his voice dripping with derision.

Rama's response was a dramatic clutch at his chest, as if wounded. "Ah, that
cuts deeper than any blade."

"You resort to begging," Kratos pointed out bluntly, his accusation hanging
heavy between them.

"I do not beg," Rama retorted, his voice rising in anger before he caught
himself, taking a deep breath to calm the storm brewing within. "Bhiksha is a
request for alms, yes. Technically, it could be seen as begging. But it's not
out of poverty." His words stumbled over each other, a rare moment of
vulnerability.

"Speak clearly," Kratos commanded, the impatience evident in his tone.

Rama's face tightened, the lines of a forced smile barely masking the hurt. "It
seems you've managed to find the last shred of ego I possessed and trample it
beneath your feet. Asking for Bhiksha, for alms, is part of living as an
ascetic, a Sannyaasi. It's about renouncing worldly attachments, embracing
humility through dependency on the divine and the generosity of others."

"Excuses," Kratos interjected coldly. "You're simply leeching off the
community."

"I take only what is surplus to them," Rama explained, trying to maintain his
composure. "In exchange, I offer my services."

"You serve their gods, not the people themselves," Kratos accused, his voice
rising in anger.

"By serving the gods, I serve the community," Rama insisted, his patience
wearing thin. "I pray to Indra for rain, for—"

"The gods serve themselves!" Kratos interrupted, his voice a low growl of
contempt.

Rama met Kratos' furious gaze with a defiant stare of his own, anger etching
deep lines across his face. "Blasphemy, Kratos. Hold your tongue!"

"I speak only truths," Kratos countered fiercely. "To them, we are
insignificant. Just as humans disregard the concerns of ants, the gods overlook
ours."

The room charged with an electric tension, the air thick with unspoken
challenges. After a tense silence, Rama exhaled sharply, his demeanor softening
as he rapidly finished his meal. Once his leaf was clean, he poured a drop of
water in his right palm and murmured, "*Amrutapithanamasi*" before sipping it.

"Do not waste food," Rama declared as he picked up his folded leaf and carried
it out the door. As he left he revealed a sly grin and said, "Or
Annapurneshwari will be very disappointed."

Kratos growled back before descending on his food begrudgingly.

___

"You dislike gods," Rama said,

"Is that a question?" Kratos inquired in return. The duo were currently seated
in the shade of the Banyan tree at the centre of the nearby village.

"The inflection was clearly that of a statement," Rama retorted. "Care to
share?"

"No," Kratos said curtly.

"Okay," Rama answered with a shrug.

___

It was a particularly new moon night, with the night sky coloured a rich shade
of black dotted prosperously with stars that gleamed like tiny diamonds. Kratos
was sat propped against a tree with his eyes closed, deep in meditation. Beside
him, lay Rama, on his back.

"I think today marks exactly five months since our first meeting," Rama
commented.

Kratos did not respond.

"I think we've known each other long and well enough to discuss deeper, more
personal topics, no?" Rama probed.

"No," Kratos denied.

"Come on, now," Rama urged. "Fine, I'll go first, maybe it will motivate you to
share in turn."

"It will not," Kratos reaffirmed with a voice tinged in frustration.

"It is true," Rama started, ignoring Kratos' denial altogether. "The gods do
not care for the concerns of mortals. What they care for, above all else, is
balance. If there is evil, there must be good. If there is life, there must be
death. If there is excess of one, an influx of the other is warranted."

"My purpose... was to bring balance," Rama said, his voice carrying immense
pain and traume in equal quantity. "I was assigned a task - a mission. I did
not have a choice. My life was predetermined - my sufferings, destined."

"And yet, you pray to them," Kratos pointed out.

"Ironic, I know," Rama responded with a wry smile. "But ultimately, we must
prostrate ourself to a higher power. When our life is out of our control, we
pray to a power that can maybe give us an iota of it."

"Does it help?" Kratos asked, semi-rhetorically.

"Well, no-"

"And yet, you pray," Kratos reiterated.

"I guess its just hope," Rama pondered. "Hope that maybe someone is listening
and will take pity on me."

"But I know that is something I do not deserve," Rama added wistfully.

A heavy pause lingered before Rama broke it by saying, "I know a self-inflicted
injury when I see one. You stabbed yourself with a sword, why?"

Kratos stayed silent, before saying, "I was assigned a task - a mission. I had
a choice, and I chose poorly. From that point onwards, my life was
predetermined - my sufferings, destined. But I did not pray for a higher power
to bring me peace, I sought it out on my own - I sought vengeance."

"And did you achieve it?" Rama followed up.

"Yes."

"Did it help?"

"No." Kratos paused.

"Vengeance turned you blind, as my devotion did to me," Rama summarised. "If I
had rebelled against my purpose, I would have ended up in your place. If you
had succumbed to yours, you would be in mine. In both cases, what remains is a
hollow man. A sinful man."

"Hmm," Kratos hummed. He pondered over an alternate future. One where he had
truly become a servant of the gods. A tool through and through. Would it have
been better?

'Useless thoughts,' he admonished. Why bother thinking of what could have been
when the past has already played itself out.

As he returned to the present mentally, Kratos was surprised to heal the gentle
breating of Rama, as he delved into a deep sleep. Even since they'd met, Rama
had never once truly put himself to rest properly, instead relying solely on
meditation and micro-naps throughout the day.

Kratos never asked why the man lived this way, as he did not care for the
peculiarities of others unless it affected him directly. Nonetheless it was an
observation.

Kratos let himself immerse in the pleasant nightly breeze, which complemented
the gentle breathing of the sleeping man. And slowly, sleep came for him too.

___

Kratos awoke to the sound of metal cutting through the wind. It was a sound he
was extremely intimated with, and often followed bloodshed. Almost by instinct,
his eyes darted open and his body entered a low stance ready to leap into
action.

Weirdly, no weapon appeared. Kratos' gaze scanned the environment, with his
radar tuned for any source of danger. None were there. Though there was
something different. Something that would have been missed had it not been for
his acute awareness. In Rama's hand, lay his axe. The tool wasn't there before.

At that moment, Rama let out a moan in pain.

"I'm sorry... brother..." he mumbled. His eyes started to bubble with tears.

"I'm sorry... mother..." he mumbled. He let out a scream and broke down into a
wail.

"Are you satisfied now... father?"

Kratos approached the hysterical man and tried to shake him awake.

"Rama!" He called out. But the man grew more distressed. "RAMA!"

"At that moment, Rama's eyes snapped open, but they lacked clarity - they were
glazed all over. His left hand yanked upwards and grabbed Kratos by the throat.

"Ra... ma...," Kratos rasped.

He tried to loosen the man's grip, but his strength was unexpectedly great. How
could a man who abhorred meat have such vigour.

After understanding that there was no need to control his strength anymore,
Kratos applied more pressure and released himself from Rama's clutches.

"Come to your senses!" Kratos yelled while massaging his neck. But his final
word was caught in his throat as an axe hurtled towards where his head was
supposed to be. With a dangerous twang, the tool-turned-weapon embedded itself
in the trunk of the tree where Kratos lay before.

Kratos let out a growl while looking into the eyes of his attacker. But his
attacker's gaze was dead - empty. But Kratos could feel the bloodlust emanating
from the man. The man who preached non-violence had definitely tasted blood -
human blood. And it wasn't just a drop, or a dollop, but a veritable ocean of
it.

There were signs everywhere. The wariness, the measuring gaze, and the
predatory aura... Kratos had only seen it in the eyes of those warriors who
spent a large part of their lives in the battlefield. He saw it every day when
he looked at his reflection.

But Kratos chalked it aside against his better judgement. He wanted to believe
that things were as they appeared.

"Wake up, man!" Kratos yelled. Rama tilted his head with a swift jerk, and like
a spring uncoiling, he leapt from his position, hurtling dangerously towards
Kratos.

Kratos dodged by instinct, avoiding a punch that could have shattered a rib.
Rama did not relent, though, as successive attacks followed. His movements were
exagerrated, easy to predict, but they carried with it a deadly force and
momentum.

Each attack was just as dangerous as the last, for any lay man. Kratos was
certain he could body some of these hits, and he affirmed his hypothesis by
blocking some of the attacks rather than dodging them. Though this led to his
first error.

Rama's sweeping kick hit Kratos' right shin. The next one arrived like a
pendulum returning, which Kratos tried to redirect to his other side, but Rama
twisted in the last minute and the attack struck his right shin once again.
Kratos moved to create distance, but an exaggerated leap from Rama covered the
distance seamlessly, and two more strikes hit Krato's right shin.

The fifth barely grazed him, but Kratos could feel the result of the repeated
hits as he felt something crack. He could not place his full weight on his
right leg anymore without experiencing a shooting pain electrocuting him.

An angry growl escaped Kratos as he adjusted his posture, preparing himself for
the sixth strike to his shin. Rama feinted and went for Kratos' left, but
Kratos anticipated this. He did not underestimate his opponent just because the
man was asleep.

Kratos caught Rama in a grapple, locking the man's lower body with a hip grap.

"AAAARGH!" Kratos bellowed while charging forward. Elbow strikes rained down on
his back, but he did not stop. Like a bull, Kratos burst through a tree in his
path using Rama as a shield, shattering the towering plant into smithereens.
But Rama did not hesitate in his attacks.

Kratos bit through the pain and pushed through another tree, and another, and
another. But Rama was jabbing with unwavering intensity.

"AAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRGH!" Kratos yelled. His gaze turning a tint of red as an
outcropping of stone appeared before him. Pushing all of his power into his
legs, Kratos barrelled onwards and collided into the structure without
hesitation.

The earth rumbled in shock, as the man cut through rock like a hot knife
through butter. Through sheer strength, Kratos passed through the structure,
causing it to destabilise and crumble. And as he exited from the other side, he
tossed Rama, grabbed him by his legs, spun him around, and tossed him away into
the dense forest. Rama hurtled like a ragdoll, destroying everything in his
path, disappearing into the greenery.

Kratos grunted, letting the bubbling anger settle. The crimson tint in his eyes
started to diminish.

But a boom distracted him. A split second later, a sharp pain radiated through
his face as his sight was momentarily blocked by a hair foot.

Kratos felt his jaws dislodging slightly. He dodged once again through pure
instict, weaved, and then sent a punch where he estimated Rama's head to be.

Fist hit flesh, and the attack connected.

The red grew darker, deeper.

Anger.

Kratos's sight turned narrow, like a horse wearing an immensely restrictive
blinder. All he saw was blood - red.

All he felt was the sensation of his bone pummelling against the bone of his
opponent.

He heard a crack, something broke - nothing on his body.

A moment of clarity made itself known - a split second. And what Kratos saw was
his hands wrapped around Rama's neck, his opponent's eyes nearly bursting out
of their sockets as his face grew pallid through suffocation.

Kratos could feel his opponent struggling. A sense of euphoria started to
course through Kratos as he felt the life slowly leaving the man. Kratos took a
deep breath as a morbid smile started to crack on his ashen face.

"I... I'm awak-" Rama managed to say, but Kratos was having none of it. With a
hard motion, Kratos snapped the man's neck and dismounted the prone body.

___

Complete clarity arrived a whole minute later, as the red settled and
truecolour returned to the world. Kratos collapsed into the ground as he gazed
at his palms in horror. His eyes alternated between the empty, bloodshot eyes
of the dead Rama and his own bruised digits. The weight of his actions was
finally dawning on him.

"What have I done?"

"Hide away all you want, convince yourself that your life will be any
different," a ghastly voice echod from within Kratos' skull. It was a voice he
remembered.

"Athena," he growled.

"No matter where you go, you cannot conceal what you are - your true nature,"
she said derisively. "You have and always will be a hound that bites the hand
that feed its."

"You are, and always will be, a mons-"

A loud inhale of air followed by a hacking cough pulled Kratos back into
reality. The man who Kratos thought- no KNEW was dead, seemingly awoke from it,
as if it was just another bout of slumber.

Rama massaged his neck as he stood up, "I apologise for hurting you."

"What?!" Kratos snapped.

"I'm sorry for putting you through that ordeal. I hope you aren't injured. Let
me inspect you-"

Kratos slapped away the dead man's hand and looked at him in disbelief, "You
are dead!"

Rama tilted his head before feeling his pulse by his jugular, "My beating heart
says otherwise."

The man revealed a wry smile before sheating his axe by his waist. "Wow, that's
quite a bit of damage. I hope no one was maimed or killed."

Kratos watched the man walk away, through the hole he'd made in the rock
formation, still unable to process what exactly had taken place.

____

{:$/gow/volume-1/index:}[< return] - {:$/gow/index:}[index] - {:$/gow/volume-1/chapter-3:}[next >]
