@document.meta
title: 26 June 2024
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-29T11:08:22+0400
updated: 2024-08-02T13:58:38+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* To-Do
** ( ) Check SDK for NATS to ROS 2 interfacing with Govind
* Journal
  - Attended {** RTA Meeting}[RTA Meeting].
  - Attended {** Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup}.
  - *Cool Quote:*
  > Demo that is effective needs to tell a story.
  > -- Ticky
* Meetings
** RTA Meeting
*** Attendees
    | SRTA-AD
*** Goals
    - Progress update
    - Work left towards Demo
*** Agenda
    - Update on what was done before and after the vacation
    - What all is left for getting drone demo ready
    - Any news?
*** Minutes
    - /from Martin:/
       -- GPU obtained for local machine.
       -- Lab available can move up all the items ffrom Saeed desk very soon.
    - {:$/journal/task-box/q2-june-demo:*** Set up provisioning server}[Set up provisioning server].
    - Can now remotely connect to dev-kit from SSH/Tailscale.
*** Action Items
    - {:$/journal/task-box/q2-june-demo:** Set up GCS/PMC for drone control}[Set up GCS/PMC for drone control]
    - {** Check SDK for NATS to ROS 2 interfacing with Govind}[Check SDK for NATS to ROS 2 interfacing with Govind]
** Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup
*** Attendees
    | SRTA-AD
    | Solita
*** Goals
    - Progress update
    - State of emergency landing demo
*** Agenda
    - Is the PMC being used at Solita?
*** Minutes
    - Matti Holtta will share a video with current version of demo in sim.
    - Iraklis will write up new requirement for demo video.
    - PMC is being used at Solita ... But how TF is it working with Release 12.0.1?
*** Action Items

    ===
___

{:$/journal/2024/06/25:}[< previous] - {:$/journal/index:}[index] - {:$/journal/2024/06/27:}[next >]
