# Requirements
	- Rugged Laptop - Dell Latitude 7330 Rugged Extreme with correct BIOS setting.
	- 2x Comms Module 1.5 (or Comms Sleeve 1.5)
	- USB for etching Ghaf installation media
	- IX-Industrial Ethernet Cable (Comms Module -> Rugged Laptop)
	- XT30-Power Male Cable (Powering Comms Module)
	- Micro USB -> USB A/C Cable (for Raspberry Pi)
	- Router with Connection to the Internet (Read ((66879ca1-0e9a-43dd-8b0c-df4fed084332)) first!)
	- Laptop with TPM2.0 Security Chip (for Provisioning Server)
	- Ethernet Switch (optional, unless the Provisioning Laptop has Wireless Hotspot Capability)
	- 2x Ethernet Cables (optional, unless Provisioning Laptop has Wireless Hotspot Capability)
- # Setting up Comms Module 1.5
	- ## Flashing `.img`
		- The image can be downloaded by running:
			- ```bash
			  oras pull ghcr.io/tiiuae/drone-mesh_com:sha-588d0b9
			  ```
		- Set the Comms Module to Flashing Mode (it is a switch).
		- Connect the Micro USB to the Comms Sleeve in the Flashing Port (which is the port below the I/O for the Industrial Ethernet Cable).
		- Build and run [raspberrypi/usbboot](https://github.com/raspberrypi/usbboot) to mount the Raspberry Pi as a filesystem:
			- ```bash
			  git clone --recurse-submodules --shallow-submodules --depth=1 https://github.com/raspberrypi/usbboot
			  cd usbboot
			  make
			  sudo ./rpiboot
			  ```
		- Install and run `rpi-imager`:
			- ```bash
			  sudo apt install rpi-imager
			  sudo rpi-imager  # Need to run as sudo
			  ```
		- In "Choose OS" select the `.img` file downloaded above.
		- In "Choose Storage" select the mounted Raspberry Pi.
		- Click "Write" to flash the device.
		- Once finished, de-power the Comms Module 1.5 and flip switch back to Normal Mode.
	- ## Configuring Network
		- Some configuration needs to be done inside the Comms Module to ensure that it connects to the write Mesh Network, and so on.
		- Connect the powered Comms Module to a computer through Micro USB and its debug port.
		- Attach a `tty` shell to the device by running the following on the computer:
			- ```bash
			  picocom /dev/ttyUSB0 -b 115200
			  # username: root
			  # password: root
			  ```
		- According to instructions for [CM and CSL Configuration](https://ssrc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DRON/pages/949026896/BKC+12.1#CM-and-CSL-Configuration):
			- Set up the Mesh Network and frequency:
				- ```bash
				  nano /opt/mesh_default.conf
				  ```
				- ```conf
				  # mesh shield 1.0/1.5 ( NOT FOR NATS )
				  MODE=mesh
				  IP=10.20.15.3
				  MASK=255.255.255.0
				  MAC=00:11:22:33:44:55
				  KEY=1234567890
				  ESSID=operation_mesh // MAKE SURE THIS IS HERE
				  FREQ=5200 // SET THIS TO A RANDOM FREQUENCY (We use 5305)
				  TXPOWER=30
				  COUNTRY=US
				  MESH_VIF=wlp1s0
				  PHY=phy0
				  #CONCURRENCY configuration
				  #CONCURRENCY=ap+mesh
				  #MCC_CHANNEL=2412
				  ```
			- Configure bridge IP:
				- ```bash
				  nano /opt/mesh-helper.sh
				  ```
				- ```sh
				  generate_lan_bridge_ip() {
				    local mesh_if_mac
				  
				    bridge_name=$(echo "$bridge" | cut -d' ' -f1)
				  
				    mesh_if_mac=$(cat /sys/class/net/"$id0_MESH_VIF"/address)
				    if [ -z "$mesh_if_mac" ]; then
				        echo "generate_lan_bridge_ip: MAC not found for id0_MESH_VIF! Configuration error?" > /dev/kmsg
				        mesh_if_mac="$(cat /sys/class/net/eth0/address)"
				    fi
				    local ip_random
				    ip_random="$(echo "$mesh_if_mac" | cut -b 16-17)"
				    bridge_ip="192.168.<MESH-SUBNET>.X"
				  
				    # legacy support
				    br_lan_ip=$bridge_ip
				  }
				  ```
				- #+BEGIN_IMPORTANT
				  One Comms Module will be connected to the Internet gateway router and the other will be connected to the PMC.
				  
				  Both need to have unique IPv4 addresses.
				  
				  For this example, let us assume that the Internet gateway is `192.168.80.1`.
				  
				  In that case:
				  Router Comms Bridge IP: `192.168.80.101`
				  PMC Comms Bridge IP: `192.168.80.111`
				  #+END_IMPORTANT
			- Reboot!
- # Setting Up Provisioning Network/Server
	- Refer to [Provisioning server setup](https://ssrc.atlassian.net/wiki/x/IQBFOQ).
	- ## Generating Keys and Certificates
		- ```bash
		  dronsole certificates request-provisioning-ca -o certs --rsa <name>
		  ```
		- This should generate a `certs/` directory with:
			- `<name>-root.cert.pem`
			- `<name>.cert.pem`
			- `<name>.key.pem`
	- ## Configuring Provisioning Network/Server
		- ```bash
		  mkdir provisioning-server
		  mv certs provisioning-server
		  cd provisioning-server
		  ```
		- Download the right executable from: [tiiuae/provisioning-server](https://github.com/tiiuae/provisioning-server/releases/tag/v1.2.5).
		- Rename the executable `provisioning-server-<os>-<arch>` -> `provisioning-server`. And then run `chmod +x provisioning-server`.
		- Move `provisioning-server` executable into the `provisioning-server/` directory.
		- Create a `.env` file in `provisioning-server/` directory:
			- ```.env
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_ENABLE_MDNS=true
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PORT=8080
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_NETWORK_INTERFACE=<the interface where the server is connected to>
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PROVISIONING_OPTIONS_FLEET_MANAGEMENT_NATS_URL=nats://nats.airoplatform.com:4222
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PROVISIONING_OPTIONS_TENANT_ID=UAE~Masdar
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PROVISIONING_KEY_PATH=./certs/<name>.key.pem
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PROVISIONING_ROOT_CERTIFICATE_PATH=./certs/<name>-root.cert.pem
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PROVISIONING_CERTIFICATE_PATH=./certs/<name>.cert.pem
			  PROVISIONING_SERVER_PROVISIONING_KEY_SOURCE=filesystem
			  ```
		- To run provisioning server, execute:
			- ```bash
			  sudo ./provisioning-server
			  ```
		- Additionally, connect the Provisioning Server to an Ethernet Switch without Internet connection.
		- Set a static IP for the device in the Network Settings:
			- IPv4 Method -> Manual
			- IP: `169.254.156.7` <- Can be anything
			- Netmask: `255.255.255.0`
			- Gateway: `169.254.156.1`
- # Setting up Wireless Mesh Network
  id:: 66879ca1-0e9a-43dd-8b0c-df4fed084332
	- ## Router Comms
		- A wireless network with internet connection is mandatory for setting up the PMC.
		- All drones and PMC will be in this network, which will be the Mesh Network.
		- #+BEGIN_IMPORTANT
		  It is mandatory that the Internet gateway have the following IP format:
		  `192.168.<MESH-SUBNET>.1`
		  
		  Optimally, it will not have any other devices apart from just the swarm components and PMC connected to it to avoid IP clashes.
		  
		  If this cannot be facilitated (possibly because of local networking issues), it is best to obtain a router with sim and manually set up the gateway.
		  #+END_IMPORTANT
		- Obtain the IP of the Internet gateway. The example for this documentation will be: `192.168.80.1`.
		- Connect a Comms Module to the Internet Router and turn it on.
	- ## Verify Internet Connection
		- Connect to the Comms debug port and attach a shell into it.
		- After login, run `ping 8.8.8.8` to verify that there is Internet connection.
		- **Case 1:** Works? Move on.
		- **Case 2:** Doesn't work?
			- First, check that `ping 192.168.80.1` (Internet Gateway) works. If this doesn't work, that means the connection to the Router isn't proper.
			- If it works, then that means we need to create a default gateway for the `br-lan` interface:
				- ```bash
				  route add default gw 192.168.80.1 br-lan # REPLACE IP WITH GATEYWAY IP
				  ```
- # Installing Ghaf
	- ## Create Installation Media
		- You can download the Ghaf image from this [link](https://artifactory.ssrcdevops.tii.ae/ui/native/ssrcdevops-demo/FR/FMO-OS_inst_0.1.5b%2BRA_v0.8.4.iso).
		- There are many ways to create installation media with this `.iso`:
			- Software like balenaEtcher
			- ```bash
			  sudo dd if=./FMO-OS_inst_0.1.5b.iso of=/dev/sdd bs=4M conv=fsync status=progress
			  ```
			- etc.
	- ## Flash Ghaf to PMC
		- A pre-requisite step is to set up BIOS of the Rugged Laptop. Since I don't have access to that Confluence page, I cannot link it.
		- But if you have access to Secure Comms Confluence you can search: "Rugged Laptop as GCS BIOS" and find the right page.
		- Plug the USB device with the boot image into the switched-off Rugged Laptop.
		- When turning on the Rugged Laptop, at BIOS splash screen (when you see the DELL logo) spam press `F12` so that it opens the `One-Time Boot Settings` page. Select the USB device to boot into.
	- ## Installation Process
		- Click the first entry on the NixOS selection screen.
		- At this point, it will ask to connect to provisioning network:
			- If the provisioning laptop has Wi-Fi Hotspot capabilities, turn it on (while switching off Internet access). Connect to that.
			- Alternatively, open a temporary Wi-Fi Hotspot on your phone and use that to connect.
			- Optimally, you will want to use this: [GL-AR300M](https://github.com/tiiuae/provisioning-server/tree/main/deployment/GL-AR300M)
			- So if you have the Provisioning Router set-up then just go with that.
		- Select `dell-latitude-7330-laptop-debug` (or `-7230-tablet-` if you're using a Rugged Tablet).
		- Select `nvme0n1` to install Ghaf.
		- For destination system IP address and gateway:
			- IP: `192.168.<MESH-SUBNET>.Y/24` -> `<MESH-SUBNET>` same as in the Comms Module, and the `Y` value must not be the same as the Comms Module's (unique).
			- Gateway: `192.168.<MESH-SUBNET>.1`
			- In this example, it is `192.168.80.121/24` and `192.168.80.1` respectively.
	- ## Provisioning
		- ### via Wireless
			- If you are connected to the Provisioning Laptop through Hotspot or to the Provisioning Router, select `y` for this step.
			- Since we enabled `mDNS` in the Provisioning Server `.env`, it will automatically detect the server, and things should progress without issue.
			- Note that an error will be thrown after: `INFO: Starting device registration`.
			- This is expected because we don't have Internet connection for the device to receive its `docker-compose.yaml` and `PAT.pat` after registration.
			- Select `reboot` and remove the USB device.
		- ### via Switch
			- More often than not, the Wireless method won't work. Do not fret.
			- Connect the Rugged Laptop via Ethernet to the switch that you previously connected the Provisioning Laptop.
			- Select `N` for the `mDNS discovery?`.
			- It will now ask you to fill in the IP and the port for the Provisioning Server:
				- IP: `169.254.156.7` <- Look back at the server's static IP
				- Port: `8080` <- This is defined in the `.env`
			- The rest should process as above: The provisioning will stop at device registration, after which remove the USB and reboot device.
		- ### Nothing Works?
			- The problem is at the Provisioning Server setup.
			- Ensure that the keys are working. Are they up to date? Maybe regenerate new ones?
			- Is the IP set up correctly?
			- Does the Laptop support setting up a server like this?
			- Sometimes, turning it off and on again works...
- # Registration and Pulling Containers
	- ## Expected Result
		- Upon reboot and connecting the Comms Module 1.5, the Rugged Laptop should automatically connect to the internet.
		- This can be verified with `ping 8.8.8.8` (if this doesn't work, then skip directly to ((66879d7f-5ecc-46c4-95d8-c2840950c717))).
		- Further verification can be done by:
			- ```bash
			  ssh 192.168.101.11 # docker vm
			  # username: ghaf
			  # password: ghaf
			  ```
			- ```bash
			  # from within docker vm
			  ls /var/lib/fogdata
			  # output should contain:
			  # certs/
			  # hostname
			  # ip-address
			  # docker-compose.yml (FROM REGISTRATION)
			  # PAT.pat (FROM REGISTRATION)
			  ```
		- If all the files and folders are present, then restart the container downloading process:
			- ```bash
			  # from within docker vm
			  journalctl -f -u fmo-dci.service
			  ```
	- ## What if There Isn't Automatic Internet Connection?
	  id:: 66879d7f-5ecc-46c4-95d8-c2840950c717
		- ### Diagnosing Issue
			- `ssh` into the `netvm` of the PMC:
				- ```bash
				  ssh 192.168.101.1
				  ```
			- Connect the Micro USB cable to the Debug port of the Comms Module and attach a shell to it from the connected computer:
				- ```bash
				  picocom /dev/ttyUSB0 -b 115200
				  # username: root
				  # password: root
				  ```
			- Run `ifconfig` in the Comms Module and in the `netvm` of PMC.
			- As of now, I have observed two possible instances for this problem.
			- **Diagnosis 1:** Check if the Comms Module is connected to PMC
				- Run `ping <br-lan ip>` from Comms Module.
				- If successful, then they are connected.
				- If not, then there is probably an issue with the physical connection -> Change cable or ensure it is plugged in fully.
			- **Diagnosis 2:** Check if there Comms Module is connected to the Mesh Network.
				- This is most common issue.
				- Run `batctl n`. You should be able to see the Comms module connected to the Router here. If not:
					- Reconfirm that all the Comms module are in the same frequency and subnet.
					- Restart the Comms module and try again (don't forget that you will have to add default gateway to the Router Comms).
				- ~~If successful, then there is internet on Comms Module, but it is not being bridged into the `br-lan` port. Skip to ((66878af8-5348-4a99-bbac-2530feebedcc)).~~
				- ~~If unsuccessful, then there isn't a Wi-Fi internet connection. Continue onwards.~~
			- With this, you should be able to `ping 8.8.8.8` from PMC and receive internet connection.
			- Run `journalctl -f -u fmo-dci.service` from docker vm to reinitialise container downloads.
		- ### Steps to connect to WIFI (from Comms Module) [Crude Process]
			- If you want an internet connection come hell-or-high-water, there is a work around.
			- We need to instantiate a wireless connection.
			- For this, obtain the ESSID and Password for the Wireless Mesh network with internet connection.
			- In the Comms Module run:
				- ```bash
				  nano /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf
				  # Edit or add the following lines:
				  # network {
				  #   ssid="<ESSID>"
				  #   psk="<password>"
				  # }
				  ```
				- ```bash
				  wpa_supplicant -i wlan0 -c /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf -B
				  ```
				- ```bash
				  udhcpc -i wlan0
				  ```
				- ```bash
				  route add default gw 192.168.<MESH-SUBNET>.1 wlan0
				  # This is the internet gateway. Replace X with appropriate 
				  # obtained from Router IP/Gateway
				  ```
			- Run `ping 8.8.8.8` from Comms Module. It should now be working
		- ### Forwarding Connection -> `give_internet.sh` [Crude Process]
		  id:: 66878af8-5348-4a99-bbac-2530feebedcc
			- The gist of the connection is that the Internet connection from the `wlan0` port is brided to the `br-lan` port, which makes it available in the PMC.
			- But, for whatever reason, this isn't happening. We created a crude solution that can recreate this.
			- Run the following in the Comms Module:
				- ```bash
				  # Enable IP masquerading for traffic from br-lan to wlan0
				  iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o wlan0 -j MASQUERADE
				  
				  # Allow forwarding of established and related connections
				  iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
				  
				  # Allow forwarding from br-lan to wlan0
				  iptables -A FORWARD -i br-lan -o wlan0 -j ACCEPT
				  
				  # Allow forwarding from wlan0 to br-lan
				  iptables -A FORWARD -i wlan0 -o br-lan -j ACCEPT
				  ```
				- This can be automated with a `give_internet.sh`.
			- With this, you should be able to `ping 8.8.8.8` from PMC and receive internet connection.
			- Run `journalctl -f -u fmo-dci.service` from docker vm to reinitialise container downloads.
- # IP Allocation
	- In order to avoid IP conflicts. It is best to plan it out beforehand.
	- The strategy we are going with is as follows:
		- Internet Gateway: `192.168.80.1`
			- Internet Gateway Mesh Comm: `192.168.80.101`
		- PMC: `192.168.80.121`
			- Internet Gateway Mesh Comm: `192.168.80.111`
		- Drone: `192.168.80.211`