# Xiao Tan / Junior Sundar -- Nominal Control + Safety Filter
tag:: #MEETING
id:: 664ce44b-107f-4873-be22-b9a792bcfc34
collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Xiao Tan
		- Junior Sundar
	- **Goals**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Understand the workings of the nominal controller and the safety filter
	- **Agenda**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Follow up on what was understood from self learning
		- Go through new powerpoint
	- **Minutes**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Follow up
			- Running matrix operations on GPU is a feasible option.
			- Will need to benchmark the point at which this becomes efficient because excess transfer of data between CPU and GPU when operations can be done efficiently in CPU is suboptimal.
			- Efficient algorithm is still in development by Xiao.
		- Nominal Control
			- *Inputs:* Possible states $X^t$ at $t$ on human remote input
			- *Outputs:* Desired control $u_{nom}$
			- $u_{nom}$ is hard to choose since $X^t$ is a matrix of estimates. For now,
			    it is constant and time-dependent.
		- Safety Filter
			- *Inputs:* Nominal control $u_{nom}$
			- *Outputs:* Safe control $u_{safe}$ with least deviation from $u_{nom}$
			- $Hx + q \leq 0$
				- Here, $H$ and $q$ matrices are obtained by defining safety bounds for the different states.
			- $H(Ax + Bu) + q \geq (1 - \gamma) Hx + q$
				- Basically states that if system starts within safe region, and the above control barrier function rule is held, it will always remain within safe region.
				- Here $\gamma$ relates to how aggressive the filter is going to be.
					- With a larger value, it will only trigger as system reaches close to boundary.
					- With smaller value the filter starts affecting from a bit further in.
			- No guarantee of feasiblity of optimisation problem to find $u_{safe}$ if the equation of quadratic programming fails, then the system is aborted.
	- **Action Items**
	  collapsed:: true
		- No meeting for next week. Set it for the week after.
- Next: [[May 21st, 2024]]