@document.meta
title: Host-Based Intrusion Detection (HIDS)
description: 
authors: juniorsundar-unikie
categories: 
created: 2024-02-15T12:06:52+0400
updated: 2024-02-15T12:09:02+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Definition

  A HIDS is a type of cybersecurity solution that monitors IT systems for signs
  of suspicious activity to detect unusual behaviours or patters associated
  with either human users or applications that could be a sign of a security
  breach or attempted attack.

  They are so-named because they operate on individual host systems. In
  context, a host could be a server, PC, or any other type of device that
  produces logs, metrics and other data that can be monitored for security
  purposes.

* NIDS vs. HIDS

  Network Intrusion Detection Systems (NIDS) monitor suspicious activity from
  perspective of network. They use data sources like network switch logs,
  analyse it, and look for suspicious activity.

  HIDS can also monitor network activity, but it is in POV of individual host,
  not through centralised equipment like switches. For HIDS, network data is
  one of many sources for security analysis purposes.

* How it Works?

  ~ *Data Collection* - HIDS constantly gather information from hosts (servers,
    computers, etc.). This includes security logs (like login attempts),
    application logs, system logs, and network traffic flows.
  ~ *Analysis* - Collected data is scrutinized for any suspicious patterns or
    activity that deviates from the normal baseline.
  ~ *Potential Attacks* - A HIDS might flag things like a sudden surge in
    requests from unknown sources (possible brute-force attack) or an
    application probing for vulnerabilities.
  ~ *Response* - Security teams use this information to block malicious
    activity or investigate further.
  ~ *Contextual Intelligence* - The most effective HIDS solutions correlate
    data from multiple sources. So, network traffic anomalies can be
    cross-referenced with application event logs, providing insights into
    whether an attack is underway or whether the software has already been
    compromised.

* Types

  ~ *Agent-based* - Uses software agents installed on each host to collect
    information from host. This is "heavier" as running agents on hosts
    increase resource utilisation.
  ~ *Agentless* - Information from host is collected by streaming data over
    network (or some similar process). This is more complex to implement, and
    accesses fewer data. This consumes less resource.

* Components

  ~ *Data collectors* - HIDS employs sensors to collect data from host.
  ~ *Data storage* - Data is aggregated and stored in central location.
    Retained as long as necessary to analyse, or archived for later use.
  ~ *Analytics engine* - Process and evaluate data. Purpose is to look for
    patterns or anomalies, and then assess likelihood of it resulting from
    security risk or attack.

* Capabilities

** Alerting

   Process of informing IT and/or security teams about potential issue.

   Potentially assesses severity of each security risk then generates alerts
   accordingly.

** Reporting

   HIDS platforms can generate reports about overall state of security within
   IT environment.

   Somethings to consider here are number and types of security risks
   identified by a HIDS over time, or how security issues can vary across
   different hosts.

   Reports for assessing over-time trends and to demonstrate security posture
   of organisation.

** Response

   Sometimes, HIDS tools can carry out certain automated response activities to
   help remediate risks.

   EG: If HIDS determines particular endpoint is trying to probe company
   servers, it could automatically generate firewall rules ot block probes.

* Best Practices

  General trend is to maximise security insights from HIDS to minimise
  management overhead.

  - *Monitor Everything* - Don't limit HIDS to only a few systems. For maximum
    visibility and understanding of threats, monitor all hosts within network.
  - *Prioritize Context* - HIDS solutions work best when they analyze multiple
    data sources together. This provides richer context to separate real
    threats from false alarms.
  - *Smart Alerting* - Only configure alerts for events that truly need
    attention. Prioritize alerts by severity to focus on the most critical
    issues.
  - *Consider Agentless Options* - Agentless HIDS can be easier to deploy,
    manage, and have less impact on system performance.

* Limitations

  - HIDS are just one layer of security.
  - Only specialise in host-based security. Gaps include, vulnerabilities in
    application source code, public cloud workloads, etc.

  HIDS work best in tandem with other security tools and services.

   ===
___

{:$/technical/terminologies/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index]
