@document.meta
title: 19 April 2024
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-29T11:08:22+0400
updated: 2024-04-19T14:09:13+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* To-Do

** (-) #RESEARCH Is it possible to automate ROS node generation

** (-) Update Jira

*** (-) RTA-22: Reorient for swarm

**** (-) Adjust Story title accordingly

** (-) {:$/journal/task-box/data-generation-task:}[Data Generation Task]

** (-) {:$/journal/task-box/caltech-tii-collaboration:}[Caltech-TII Collaboration]

** (-) Meetup with Eyad Shaklab in Testing Team to understand data collection procedure

*** (x) Compare FIFO vs. High Rate recording: Is it possible to record this consistently?

    The problem with FIFO is that it is far too high frequency, that not even
    the bagfiles can keep up with it. So in the end, going for the
    high-frequency output from the ULOG files should be sufficient.

    For FIFO, additional processing stages are necessary and it can only record
    the primary sensor (which you have to choose as well between accelerometer
    or gyroscope). So if you have multiple accelerometers, you have to manually
    switch off all except one.

*** ( ) Coordinate with Willian and Jose to streamline data collection procedure in Testing Team's work pipeline

  ===
___

* Journal

  Validation... Is it necessary? Especially if this validation is coming from
  outside and not from within.

  Come to think of it, I do care about what others think of me. But some people
  have mistaken opinions about who or what I am. Is it worth it to try and
  change this opinion?

  To be fair, I never thought about it...

  I cannot change the core of my personality - I am who I am. And it is up to
  others if they choose to accept that or not.

  If they cannot accept where I am starting from, they will never accept who I
  will become. Because the finish line keeps moving when people realise that I
  am moving close to it.

  There is nothing wrong in caring about yourself first. It is illogical to
  believe that someone else out these is going to care about your well-being,
  since in the end everyone is always gunning for Number 1.

    ===
___

{:$/journal/2024/04/18:}[< previous] - {:$/journal/index:}[index] - {:$/journal/2024/04/20:}[next >]
