@document.meta
title: Scratch
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-29T21:26:44+0400
updated: 2024-04-19T16:07:44+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Kano Characters

  - Elder Gram Bolin - Ratty old man
  - Elder Bogum - Woman
  - Kam Bruin - Adopter
  - Dodi Bruin - Kam's wife

* Dora arc

  Dora is kept as a pet in the woman's large mansion.

  Dora is free to explore the mansion as she wishes.
  - Ownership and face of having an exotic entity such as a human in her
    control makes the woman lax.
  - See if it is possible to highlight this sense.

  Dora is exposed to a lot of the servants who move about lifelessly. She gets
  a feeling that something is missing inside them. A lot like how the animals
  under the woman's control moved about, lifelessly.

  Fancy is nowhere to be found.

  Dora finds the basement, where she meets Thalias in the midst of torture.

  One day, the woman leaves after hearing that the Behemoth was spotted again.

  Dora leaves the mansion grounds and explores the city. There she is exposed
  to more of the same:
  - Mistreatment of animals and beasts.
  - Lifeless creatures.
  - Children treating animals inhumanely.
  - Maybe pepper in a live taming event.

  Dora returns to find a large commotion, as the Behemoth she found earlier is
  dragged in bound.

  She quickly returns to the mansion and finds them taking the creature to a
  hidden region of the mansion.

  That night she sneaks in and finds Fancy, and the Behemoth almost dying, with
  a defiant look in its eyes. She approached the creature and found that she
  could once again feel the same emptiness drawing close. The only thing
  lighting up the room is the fire, which dances in her gaze as she feel
  grief-stricken and angry. She touched the creature's stomach and blanks out.

  The next thing she knows, she is being awoken by Fancy amidst the sound of a
  loud battle and a roar of the Behemoth. She walks out groggily from the
  wreckage and sees the Behemoth wrecking havoc. But it no longer looks like a
  Behemoth. It looks evolved, and burning!

  Dora is an empath just like Kano. While former is more attuned to beasts and
  creatures while the latter is with humans.

  *PIVOT INTO DANCE. EXPRESSING YOURSELF THROUGH YOUR BODY. MAYBE MAKE USE OF
  YOGA TO ACHIEVE THIS PIVOT. DRAGON BALL Z!*

* Kano arc

  Kano is brought to Elder Bolin's place.

  Things are awkward at first, Elder Bolin seriously wants to extract
  information out of Kano, but finds it difficult to communicate with children.

  Kano's gaze lands at the various armours and weapons displayed around the
  room. He starts to inspect them and express his awe.

  He manages to evaluate a few of the items in the room, realising them to be
  the Elder's unique creations.

  *Lore*:
  > Enchanted weapons that are built specifically for people that reach a
  > Legendary rank cannot be handed down from generation to generation. The
  > utility piece selects its user and it is evaluated based on how close the
  > new weilder is to its original owner, not just is blood but also in thought
  > and behaviour.

  Kano's praise endears the Elder to him, and the man slowly opens up with his
  ego boosted.

  He then asks rather blatantly about how Kano crafted his story that day.

  Kano is unable to answer the question, as he lacks enough knowledge to
  critically analyse his works.

  The Elder will then proceed to breakdown the standard story crafting process.

  *Lore*:
  > Dwarven storytelling, in its true form, is in the form of ballads. Music
  > plays a key role here, as the various aspects of music affect the way it is
  > conveyed and perceived. In a way you can also allude to the fact that the

  > Dwarven script is like musical notation.
