@document.meta
title: Secure State Reconstruction in Differentially Flat Systems Under Sensor Attacks Using Satisfiability Modulo Theory Solving
description: #control-barrier-theory #journal-article
authors: juniorsundar
categories: [
    research
] 
created: 2024-03-14T13:50:53+0400
updated: 2024-05-16T13:27:34+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

| Access {/ assets/docs/shoukry2015.pdf}[reference]

* Introduction

  Stuxnet virus targeting SCADA systems --> Feeds previously recorded
  measurements back into the controller.

  *Secure state reconstruction* is process of reconstructing actual system
  states by using data collected from attack-free sensors.

  No assumptions are made about the attack, such as the stochastic properties,
  time evolution, or energy bounds.

  Has been attempted mainly in linear systems, this paper approaches this topic
  in nonlinear space.

  More specifically, it looks at physical systems that are differentially flat.

  *Scalar system* is a system whose variables and parameters are scalar
  quantities rather than vectors or matrices.

  *As long as knowledge of system state is available* differentially flat
  systems can be converted into linear systems using:
  - dynamic feedback linearisation, and
  - a change of coordinates

  The condition for state reconstruction is that the system is {:$/terminologies/sparse-observability:}[s-sparse observable].

* Secure State Reconstruction using SMT Solving

  Assumes knowledge of {:$/terminologies/smt:}[Satisfiability Modulo Theory].

  Secure state reconstruction problem is combinatorial, since direct solution
  will require constructing the state from all different combinations of
  $p-\bar{s}$ sensors to determine which sensors are under attack.

* Case Study: Securing Quadrotor Mission

  Quadrotor takes-off an moves in a flat square trajectory.

  Two IMUs, one of which has its vertical velocity reading attacked with a
  sinusoid on top of actual reading.

  Only attacked on two parallel sides (not the whole trajectory).

  A system model approximation is necessary.

  Controller designed to be robust against bounded perturbations.

* Conclusion

  Given upper bound $\bar{s}$ on number of attacked sensors, it is showed that
  $2\bar{s}$ -sparse flatness is sufficient condition for state reconstruction
  in spite of attack.

  SMT based detection algorithm for differentially flat systems proposed.

  ===
___

{:$/research/literature-review/index:}[< return] -  {:$/index:}[index]

