@document.meta
title: Novelty-based Intrusion Detection of Sensor Attacks on Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
description: 
authors: juniorsundar-unikie
categories: [
    uav-fault-dataset
] 
created: 2024-03-19T10:50:28+0400
updated: 2024-03-20T11:08:39+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

| Access {/ assets/docs/whelan2020.pdf}[reference]

* Summary

  Novelty-based approach to intrusion detection, using /one-class classifiers/.

  One-class classifiers require only non-anomalous data to exist in training
  set => allows for the use of flight-logs as training data.

  Dataset: {https://ieee-dataport.org/open-access/uav-attack-dataset}[UAV Attack Dataset]
  - Data generated for testing is in SITL and HITL (no real life flights).
  - Data generated for training appears to be with real flights.

  GPS spoofing is used in paper as common example of external sensor-based
  attack.

  > Novelty detection, rather than anomaly detection, provides ability to learn
  > from a training dataset where anomalies are not present.  

** Contributions

   Propose use of one-class novelty detection techniques for intrusion detection.

   Discuss how one-class classifiers can be used to solve unavailability of
   labelled UAV intrusion detection datasets.

   Demonstrate performance of various classifiers using data from simulated
   flights.

* Methodology

** Pre-Processing

   Features unique to components or sensors are clustered and separate models
   are trained for each cluster. Unrelated or autopilot-specific features are
   dropped (for universality).

   Flight logs split into multiple CSVs based on sensor/topic logged.

   /Interpolate values/ for topics that are being polled at slower rate.

   {:$/terminologies/pca:}[Principal Component Analysis] is performed transform set of features into
   principal components to better explain variance in original set.

** Training and Tuning

   Two datasets to train and test:
   - Benign dataset without malicious data to train and fit model.
   - Dataset with benign and malicious data to test model.

   /One-Class Support Vector Machine/ (semi-supervised) trained on benign data

   /Autoencoder neural networks/ trained on benign dataset using mean squared
   error (MSE) loss function.

   /Local Outlier Factor/ is a density-based method (effective on lower
   dimension data)

* Performance Evaluation

** Experiment Design

   Mostly SITL with some HITL is used for data collection.

   All flights are autonomous survey missions between 10-30 minutes depending
   on UAV's maximum velocity.

*** Attack Simulation

    PX4 Autopilot and Gazebo

    Fail-safes are disabled.

    GPS spoofing is used as it is "common sensor-based attack".

    Subject to sensor spoofing for 30 seconds.

    Using a plugin for the sim environment, GPS data at higher rate is
    published which the UAV uses. This is spoofed signal.

*** Dataset Creation

    Saved flight logs in ULOG format, downloaded after each flight and
    timestamps removed from logs.

    Attack start and end times are labelled to assist in performance analysis.

* Evaluation

  This is only verified against simulated data

  ===
___

{:$/research/literature-review/index:}[< return] -  {:$/index:}[index]
