@document.meta
title: Chapter 416
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-29T21:36:18+0400
updated: 2024-01-29T22:51:31+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Something unforeseen had transpired inside the City Hall of the great Dwarven city of Dhakhar. An event so outrageous that it sent shockwaves throughout the entire building. The epicentre of the shockwave was at the Registration Centre, the department of every City Hall that handles the demographical information of the residents in its purview. Everytime foreign dwarf enters a new city with hopes of a long-term stay, they must register with the City Hall to ensure that their data is updated in the Registration Centre. If a new dwarf is born in the city, they must also be registered once they are old enough to speak their first words and string together meaningful sentences.

Needless to say, the Registration Centre was one of the more important parts of the City Hall as it was the frontend system, as in, it was the place where every resident must frequent at least once in their lives. Deeper within the City Hall lied the more specialised and often less frequented (by the average citize) segments such as the Hall of Justice, the various departments that handled the many aspects of governance, a Combat Arena, and other miscellaneous quarters. Yet even in these deep confines of the vast City Hall, the louds sounds of wailing echoed and resonated across its walls.

"What is that unholy sound?" A gruff voice asked while a large dwarf (for his species) rubbed his ears. "Are those... people crying?"

"It appears so," Elder Bogum affirmed from accross the larger dwarf. "It's the Empaths! Now that's something you don't see everyday. Here's hoping it doesn't reach Elder Bolin-"

"What in the name of Drebin's Nethers is all that ruckus?!" An irritated bellow rattled the large dwarf's office and caused the two individuals to flinch.

"There he goes," Elder Bogum said with a sigh. "The Empaths at the Registration Centre are in for a bad day now."

The angry old man stomped through the hallways of the City Hall with express purpose. It wouldn't do to have such disruptions affecting the peace of this hallowed building!

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-416:}[next >]
