@document.meta
title: chapter-419
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-06T20:43:13+0400
updated: 2024-02-06T23:08:29+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

"Elder Bolin! What brings you here... so late... at this time of the night?" Kam mumbled, his voice diminishing with anxiety with each word uttered. His wife had disappeared altogether, choosing to hide away in the kitchen (even though she knew that Elder Bolin could still observe her with his mana sense).

"I couldn't help but overhear your struggle," Elder Bolin declared thoughtfully.

"Struggle? What-"

"About the boy's education," he said. "Fret not, I am willing to take that responsibility off your hands."

"Excuse me?" Kam sputtered.

"You're welcome," Elder Bolin responded with a satisfied smile.

And then there was silence.

"Umm," Kam muttered while scratching his forehead in frustration. "Elder Bolin, I'm not sure I understand..."

"This boy," Elder Bolin said while pointing directly at Kano. "I will teach him personally. I will bring him up to speed with Dwarven culture and history, and handle his core studies."

"I don't think such special attention is warranted..." Kam said with a wry smile.

"Do not worry, I will be teaching him at my home," Elder Bolin added with a magnanimous wave of his hand. "I won't trouble you to host me. As I know that it will be burdensome for Dodi."

"It won't be any trouble at all!" Kam retorted immediately, though in truth he did not mean a word of the exclamation. He was hoping, secretly, that the Elder wouldn't go back on his declaration.

In turn, he was immedately assaulted by a scrutinising gaze from the old man.

"You are a few centuries too young to fool me, boy," Elder Bolin snapped with a loud growl. "I hear what people say behind my back, I just choose to overlook it since I cannot always inhibit my senses from being receptive."

Two loud gulps resounded in the room, one of which that was still audible even though it originated from within the kitchen.

"So do you agree or not?" Elder Bolin urged impatiently. "Since you two are the official guardians of the child, I need your approval. So let us be done with it."

"Ask him why!" A woman's voice rasped in a loud whisper. Kam flinched in his seat in shock and turned his head to see his wife peaking through the door and looking straight at him.

"You can ask me yourself, Dodi!" Elder Bolin admonished.

The door closed immediately and the sound of footsteps hurriedly receding resounded from the other room, which caused both Elder Bolin and Kam to sigh.

"Why does she behave this way?" Elder Bolin.

"She is afraid," Kam blurted out.

"Afraid? Of me? What have I done to her that warrants such behaviour?" Elder Bolin said with a scoff.

At that moment, Kam's pupils glazed over as he relived his torturous childhood while under Elder Bolin's tutelage within mere seconds. As he returned to the present time, his whole body shivered with anxiety.

"She's just a bit more sensitive than most," Kam quickly explained, and before the Elder could dig deeper he asked, "Though I do wonder why the sudden interest in educating Kano here."

"I don't need to answer than question," Elder Bolin concluded while folding his arms in defiance.

"I apologise if this causes offence, but Kano IS technically my ward. And as my ward, I am responsible in many ways for his well-being. I can't in good conscience send him to the home of another adult if I do not know what their intentions are with him," Kam explained.

A staredown ensued between the two adults. Kam struggled to maintain eye-contact as Elder Bolin's gaze somehow drilled straight into his insecurities from his childhood. Surprisingly, it was Elder Bolin who broke eye-contact, as his sight faltered and attached itself to Kano whose head was oscillating between Kam and Elder Bolin with evident confusion.

Kam let out a cough and said, "Why don't you go inside, Kano. I have to talk with Elder Bolin in private."

Kano nodded before jumping out of his seat and going the way of Dodi. Elder Bolin awaited with closed eyes until he was certain that the boy was out of ear shot before saying.

"I'm sure you noticed my state near the end of the boy's recount of his history," Elder Bolin said, cutting right to the chase.

"I do not-"

"Let us skip the lip-service," Elder Bolin barked. "I made a fool of myself there."

"So you understand my hesitance," Kam emphasised. "It was the boy that caused it-"

"It was my own shortcoming," Elder Bolin interjected. "I didn't know I had this weakness inside me, the boy simply brought it forth to my attention. I should be grateful to him. What if I had exposed this weakness at a more precarious setting?"

"I actually followed your footsteps after you left the City Hall," Elder Bolin admitted. "My intrigue was piqued, and I couldn't detach myself from it. I know that it is a violation of your and your family's privacy, so I apologise."

"The boy is different," Elder Bolin continued. "Unique. Maybe its a quirk of his species. Although Dwarven blood flows through his veins, he is (at least in appearance) a human being. There is very little to go on with regards to those species. All we have are recounts of the horrible treatment our kind was forced to suffer through in their service."

"We thought that through the years, we had grown stronger and superceded our past oppressors. Which is true. Enchantment and smithing advanced by leaps and bounds since the Age of Isolation. Yet, one false assumption we made was that the humans would remain static while we advanced ourselves."

Elder Bolin scooted closer and whisper, "If a little child, a mere whelp of their species without an once of cultivation inside him can reduce me to a snivelling mess, just imagine what an adult could do? Imagine what havoc a proper human mage could wreck!"

"My true intention is an exchange of knowledge, of sorts. I will teach him our ways and turn him into a proper dwarf all the while learning more about the humans," Elder Bolin explained conspiratorially. "For the first time in many years a human has stepped into the Fel Realm. I am certain that others are not far behind. And when that time eventually comes, I don't wish to be caught with my undergarments around my ankles."

Kam hummed along while rubbing his beard.

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-420:}[next >]
