@document.meta
title: Chapter 421
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-10T13:48:49+0400
updated: 2024-02-15T23:27:58+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

The travel from the Capital to his target destination - Twilight Village - took much longer than Wei Zao had anticipated. A large part of it was because he was drowning in anxiety the entire way back. In fact, within a single day of travel via caravan, he grew fed up and decided to book it the rest of the way on foot, while carrying his Student on his back.

He ignored the infrequent jeers sent his way by random bystanders, because it didn't matter in the grand scheme of things. They would all be dead eventually, when the end of the world comes.

Within the three days of continuous travel, Wei Zao had finally landed on the path that would lead him to Twilight Village.

"I think I can walk the rest of the way from here," Gaige mumbled in embarrassment. The entire journey, he'd strategically hidden his face so that no one would recognise him. He'd asked multiple times for Teacher Way to drop him, but the man was adamant towards the necessity of haste.

Luckily, it seemed that this plea had reached Teacher Way's ears as the man halted and took a moment to consider.

"I guess we are close enough to our destination," Teacher Way hummed. And then, Gaige could finally dismount.

The duo then walked in silence, but at a brisk pace that matched a speed somewhere between a sprint and a jog for a regular human being.

"The roads seem to have improved in these parts," Gaige commented as they glided seamlessly over the newly built paths that was wide enough to support two caravans to move side-by-side.

This of course, did not warrant a response from Teacher Way, who had grown increasingly silent over the past few days. Gaige could feel a palpable anxiety radiating off of the man, which was uncharacteristic as he had known him to be a pillar of confidence and assurance.

Seconds turned into minutes until the village which was to be their destination appeared over the horizon - Twilight Village.

They were welcomed by a large sign that quite literally said, "Welcome to Twilight Village - the Sun must set for a Brighter Dawn."

The text was on the foreground to a painting that captured a mountain piercing into a cloud tinted a beautiful shade of twilight crimson. It exemplified a bold use of colours and unorthodox strokes that eerily resembled finger prints.

"Quite poetic," Gaige commented, but Teacher Way walked right past the beautifully illustrated board.

The duo followed the path that took them right towards the centre of the village. Another large sign indicated that this was the public bathhouse.

"People bathe communally here?" Gaige asked in surprise. Once again, his attempt to spark a conversation was overlooked as Teacher Way approached the closest individual they could find.

It was an elderly woman who was just exiting the bathhouse with a towel wrapping her hair.

"Excuse me," Teacher Way intercepted. "Do you know a man called Guy Larks?"

The woman took a step back and scrutinised Teacher Way thoroughly.

"Who's asking?"

"Look here, do you-" Gaige instinctively moved forward irritatedly here, but Teacher Way held out his hand and took over, "I am an acquaintance from when he was working at the Radiant Academy. He is expecting me."

"If he were expecting you, then you wouldn't be asking me whether I knew him or not," the woman rebutted with a frown.

Teacher Way returned a blank gaze before reiterating, "Where can I find Guy Larks?"

"I can take you to him, if you can tell me why?" A voice answered from behind them. They knew who the speaker was before turning around, but they were still surprised to see a blind teen (about Gaige's age). Well, seeing a blind kind wasn't what surprised them, the surprise came through the fact that the child was carrying a massive tree trunk over his shoulder.

"Where can I find Guy Larks?" Teacher Way asked.

"What you're demanding, I can supply. But since I am the exclusive vendor I get to set the price," the blind teen said with a smile.

"It is evident that you aren't the only exclusive vendor," Teacher Way said while gesturing at the people forming a crowd around them. "I'm certain that there are at least twenty vendors all around me."

"They won't sell to you," the boy continued with a smile.

"You're pretty confident about that. What if I gave them an offer that they can't refuse?"

The boy let out a laugh and urged, "I'd like to see you try."

"You're quite confident for someone who's still in the Foundation Establishment realm," Teacher Way followed up while increasing the pressure within his mana domain.

"Wait!" Gaige blurted out. "Foundation Establishment realm? Him?!"

"Well, what if I could give you something in return?" Teacher Way continued, ignoring Gaige's outburst. "I can see that you are still "

___

Wei Zao arrives at Twilight Village with Gaige Bori in tow.

The village they arrive in is unlike their expectations. The roads have improved, and so have the houses. The community center has grown, which used to be the public bathhouse and pool.

They also observe a blind kid, about Gaige's age, helping move a large trunk. The kid halts and "looks" in their general direction. He drops the trunk and approaches them.

Yohn introduces himself and asks for Wei Zao and Gaige's providence. Wei Zao explains that he knows the Sect Leader Larks. Yohn indicates wariness, to which Wei Zao expounds and clarifies their relationship.

While Yohn takes them towards the Sect, Wei Zao pulses his mana senses to probe the lad and utilises his system - the Library - to inspect Yohn. To his surprise the library comes out empty, only listing that the kid had an intermediate level proficiency on a combat style _name combat style_. 

Wei Zao asks how Yohn is able to observe the world without his mana senses, to which the boy responds by opening his eyes - revealing two small disco balls - and saying that he just sees them with his eyes.

Gaige asks Wei Zao what their purpose is, as he's been a bit evasive on that front while travelling here. Wei Zao explains that he intends to synchronise with Guy and figure out a plan of action.

Gaige observes that this would put Wei Zao in a submissive capacity. The man laughs it off and says that sometimes, no matter how hard you try you cannot be the person you aren't meant to be. Gaige does not understand. Wei Zao explains that it will make sense when you meet Guy Larks.

As they enter the Sect, they are once again surprised by the simplicity of the campus. Gaige further comments on the visibly flat structure, wherein most sects opt for something more layered with multiple levels. To that Yohn explains the Sect'

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-421:}[next >]
