@document.meta
title: Chapter 420
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-02-10T13:48:49+0400
updated: 2024-02-10T17:36:01+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

Kano did not sleep that night. His mind teetered between fear, anxiety and sadness, and made it difficult for slumber's sweet embrace to envelope him. Much had happened in a short duration that had overturned his life. And it annoyed hem that there was nothing he could do to ameliorate it - he was being forced to just follow as others made decisions on his behalf. But the fact of the matter was that there was nothing else he could do,  he was just a child. And deep down, he wasn't confident that he could make the "right" decision... whatever that was.

Adults know better, that's why they're adults. They've lived longer, experienced much in turn. It should give them the expertise to make the "right" decision.

"How many people have been stranded in a completely foreign place with no way to return home?" Kano asked out loud. After all, wisdom comes with experience, and so far, he did not know of anyone else who had gone through something like this before.

"Would Mister Larks know what to do? He knows everything," Kano added with a wistful expression.

Little did he know that maybe Guy was probably one of the handful of others in this universe who could relate to him.

As memories of his time with his family started to rush back in, Kano's eyes burst out with tears and the boy descended into a muffled whimper. He covered himself with the heavy leather blanket and cried his eyes out. Seconds turned to minutes, which then turned to hours until he tired out and fell asleep. Though his slumber was far from comforting.

Kano woke up eventually as bright rays of the sun pierced through the gap in his eyelids. He sat up on the mattress and looked out the window. A few seconds passed before he doubled back mentally.

"Why is there a sun here?"

He leapt out from 

____

{:$/volume-6/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index] - {:$/volume-6/chapter-421:}[next >]
