@document.meta
title: Satisfiability Modulo Theory
description: 
authors: juniorsundar-unikie
categories: 
created: 2024-04-23T11:49:53+0400
updated: 2024-04-23T11:52:38+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Introduction

  SMT is a problem-solving technique that generalises Boolean satisfiability
  problem (SAT).

  SAT --> Challenge is to determine if there is an assignment of truth values
  to variables s.t. given Boolean formula becomes true.

  SMT --> Extends this by allowing not just Boolean variables and logical
  relationships, but also variables and predicates from other theories.

  It provides a powerful framework for reasoning about mathematical models with
  rich structures.

* Key Components of SMT

** Theories

   They provide structures and operations that are possible on types of data
   involved.

   Some commonly used theories:
   - Linear Integer Arithmetic
   - Real Arithmetic
   - Bit-vectors
   - Arrays
   - Uninterpreted Functions

** Logic

   Involves constructing formulae using elements provided by the theories.

   Often combines variables and operations from multiple theories within single
   problem statement.

* SMT Solvers

  Tool that attempts to determine whether there exists an assignment of values
  to variables in SMT problem s.t. entire formula evaluates to true.

  Problem is considered *satisfiable* if such assignment exists, else
  *unsatisfiable*.

  SMT solvers are crucial in:
  - Software verification
  - Hardware verification
  - Formal methods
  - AI

* Example

  Consider simple example involving linear integer arithmetic.

  SMT problem is to determine if there exists $x$ and $y$ s.t. following
  conditions are satisfied:

  $x+y > 5 $

  $x<3$
  
  $y>1$

  SMT solver would attempt to find values that satisfy all these conditions or
  report that no such values exist.

