@document.meta
title: Zero-Order Hold Method
description: 
authors: juniorsundar-unikie
categories: 
created: 2024-04-15T13:25:30+0400
updated: 2024-04-15T13:27:35+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Definition

  The zero-order hold (ZOH) method is a technique used in digital signal
  processing to reconstruct a continuous-time signal from a discrete-time one.

* Methodology

  *Sampling* - The continuous-time signal is sampled at regular intervals (the
  sampling period).

  *Holding* - The value of each sample is held constant until the next sample
  arrives. This creates a piecewise-constant signal that resembles a staircase.

* Mathematical Representation

  If you have a discrete-time signal $x[n]$ :

  $x_{ZOH}(t) = x[n]  \forall nT ≤ t < (n+1)T$

  where:
  - $T$ is the sampling period
  - $n$ is the sample index

* Applications

  *Digital-to-Analog Conversion (DAC)* - ZOH is commonly used in DACs to
  convert digital signals into analog signals that can drive real-world
  systems.

  *Control Systems* - ZOH is used in control systems to model the behavior of
  systems that receive digital control inputs but operate in continuous time.

* Key Points

  The zero-order hold is a simple and practical way to reconstruct signals.

  It introduces a delay of one-half the sample period into the reconstructed
  signal.

  The reconstructed signal contains higher-order harmonics due to the sharp
  steps, which might need filtering in some applications.

  ===
___

{:$/terminologies/index:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index]

