# Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup
tag:: #MEETING
collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
	  collapsed:: true
		- SRTA-AD
		- Solita
	- **Goals**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Update for demo
		- State of MLOps and SRTA module deployments
	- **Agenda**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Up to speed on the state of development of SRTA modules and such.
		- Synchronise on deliverables for the demo.
	- **Minutes**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Emergency landing demo is functional.
			- End to end container works with segmentation models.
			- Set minimum battery value via PX4 container to display the pop-up on the UI
		- Unsure if gstreamer/deepstream will work with GHAF 2.0
		- Demo status -> Some minor bug fixes left
		- Intended integration date will happen after SLS completion
			- How to test sensor anomalies in simulation?
			- Focus on data transformation from rostopics over data injection.
	- **Action Points**
	  collapsed:: true
		- MAYBE Set up meeting with Willian and Samridha to talk about the nature of template structure.
- # Journal
	- **w.r.t. October (GITEX 2024) Demo**
	  id:: 66581fb0-66ca-4bc7-ae37-8f6e175f6774
	  collapsed:: true
		- Need to create a demo for GITEX to showcase the work done in SRTA
		- Need to decide on a robotic platform (*Possible UGV*)
			- DONE Check out whether F4F has UGV that we can use
			  id:: 66582552-5811-41b1-9adf-d1f85519204f
			  :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2024-06-03 Mon 14:50:19]
			  :END:
				- [Scout Mini](https://global.agilex.ai/products/scout-mini) -> @F4F
				- [Bunker](https://global.agilex.ai/products/bunker) and [Bunker mini](https://global.agilex.ai/products/bunker-mini) -> @AD and @F4F
		- Need to find a strategy that is adjacent enough to the current platform such that the amount of changes that need to be made in the code/framework is limited.
		- Discussing possible demonstrable items:
			- in Hardware:
				- Authentication/Authorisation
					- voice recognistion,
					- text-2-speech,
					- LLM,
					- API to convert textual commands to robotics commands.
				- Parasitic load
					- Place load or some opposition on object and warning is produced.
			- in Virtual/Simulation:
				- Drone + Jammer virtual demonstration
					- Person designates jam region on screen
					- Drone visually deploy the geofence
					- Drones avoid this geofence
				- Mission success forecast
					- Place waypoints and forecast is shown.
					- Change waypoints and it gets updated.
	- Attended [RTA Meeting](((666975bf-3431-4971-aced-f257086f27a5)))
- Next: [[May 30th, 2024]]