# To-Do
	- DONE What is a [[Hypervisor]]?
	  tag:: #RESEARCH
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2024-04-03 Wed 20:45:57]--[2024-04-03 Wed 21:09:01] =>  00:23:04
	  :END:
		- Also researched [[Virtualisation]]
- # Journal
	- Its hard to have opinions because you fear that your opinions are wrong. I think apart from just having opinions you also need the backbone to stand up and say that you stand behind those opinions.
- # `xz` Utils backdoor
	- Microsoft developer found the backdoor in the open source data compression utility.
	- "This might be the best executed supply chain attack we've seen described in the open, and it's a nightmare scenario: malicious, competent, authorized upstream in a widely used library," -- Filippo Valsorda
	- Andres Freund was troubleshooting performance problems in Debian was experiencing with SSH. SSH logins were consuming too many CPU cycles and were generating errors with valgrind.
	- This helped him find out that the problem was a result of updates made to the `xz` Utils library.
	- [`xz` Backdoor Graphic -- Thomas Roccia](https://cdn.arstechnica.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/xz-backdoor-graphic-thomas-roccia-scaled.jpg)
	- **What does the backdoor do?**
		- Added to versions 5.6.0 and 5.6.1.
		- Manipulated `sshd`, the executable file used to make SSH connections.
		- Anyone in possession of a predetermined encryption key could stash any code of their choice in an SSH login certificate, upload it, and execute it on the backdoored device.
		- In theory, the code could allow for just about anything, including stealing encryption keys or installing malware.
	- **How is this possible?**
		- Any library can tamper with inner workings of any executable it is linked against.
		- OpenSSH doesn't link the `liblzma` library. But Debian and many other Linux distributions add patch to link `sshd` to `systemd`, which in turn links to `liblzma` which allows `xz` Utils to exert control over `sshd`.
- Next: [[Apr 3rd, 2024]]