# SRTA Demo Requirements
tag:: #MEETING
collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Jose Segovia
		- Junior Sundar
		- Samridha Shreshta
		- Saeed Alseiari
		- Willian Lunardi
	- **Goal**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Provide update to Jose on the hardware requirements for the Q2 Demo
	- **Agenda**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Point to Confluence page
		- Propose requirements for additional data streams
	- **Minutes**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Autonomous flights can be run in the outdoor arena with $\pm$2cm
		- Hardware for data recording needs to be synchronised with the demo builds
		- There is no temperature sensor in the battery:
			- Supplier asked for a custom power distribution board, and this does not support temperature readings
			- Possibly attach thermocouple to the batteries, but not feasible because:
				- if connect to FC, then a driver needs to be built for it
				- if connect to MC, then the OS is hardened and denies random external connections
				- a PDF that accommodates temperature stream will be required and that takes too long.
		- GPU enabling is an issue since running ML models requires GPU resources and existing
		- Barometer has ambient temperature reading (Informed Shamsa about this)
	- **Action Items**
	  collapsed:: true
		- DOING Data collection from testing team follow-up --> Awaiting Tintu's go-ahead
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-04-24 Wed 13:16:01]
		  CLOCK: [2024-04-24 Wed 13:16:04]
		  :END:
		- DOING Camera stream for image segmentation
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-04-25 Thu 13:29:44]--[2024-04-25 Thu 13:29:45] =>  00:00:01
		  CLOCK: [2024-04-25 Thu 13:29:45]
		  :END:
			- DONE Which camera is being used for this
				- [ ] [Luxonis OAK-D S2](https://shop.luxonis.com/products/oak-d-s2?variant=42455432233183)
				- [x] [SIYI A8 Mini](https://shop.siyi.biz/products/siyi-a8-mini)
			- DONE How is the data being recorded?
			  :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2024-04-25 Thu 13:29:54]--[2024-04-25 Thu 14:04:41] =>  00:34:47
			  :END:
				- DONE It is known that the data is being dumped in ROSbags somewhere, how to extract this?
					- It can be recorded using [`nats-bag`](https://github.com/tiiuae/nats-bag)
					- A laptop or GCS that is in the same NATS network can record the data streamed through NATS.
					- ```bash
					  nats-bag [-s nats://localhost:4222] record [filename]
					  ```
				- DONE Is recording happening continuously or is it to be triggered?
					- The gimbal stream needs to be activated by opening the stream through `dronsole` UI or running:
					- ```bash
					  nats pub video.cmd.<device-id> '{"subscriber": "id1", "subscribe":true}'
					  ```
			- DOING Verify if this method can be used to record data in the outdoor arena demo -- talk to Jose Segovia
			  :LOGBOOK:
			  CLOCK: [2024-04-25 Thu 14:04:21]--[2024-04-25 Thu 14:04:42] =>  00:00:21
			  :END:
			- TODO Demo setup
- # Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup
  tag:: #MEETING
  collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Solita
		- SRTA-AD
	- **Goal**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Update on MLOps work
	- **Agenda**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Understand the scope of the demo for Q2
		- Resolve some of the questions regarding the image segmentation work
	- **Minutes**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Using fog-ros base image to build containers as it is yocto build ready
		- Currently not possible to access GPU resources as the `ghaf` platform is hardened AF
		- Apparently GPU enabling is not priority for the `ghaf` team
		- Safe landing and image segmentation cannot be demoed IRL if that is the case
			- Most likely will be in simulation form with dronsole
			- This just sounds pointless, but it is sufficient to produce MVOutput
	- **Action Items**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Follow up with `ghaf` team about being more involved in their team meetings
- # Data Science for Cybersecurity
  subtitle:: An overview focused on networking
  speaker:: [Michele Nogueira](https://homepages.dcc.ufmg.br/~michele/)
  tag:: #SEMINAR
  collapsed:: true
	- The 4th industrial revolution is the age of cyber physical systems. Everything is "smart":
		- cars
		- homes
		- farms
		- etc...
	- Trends for the internet:
		- Ubiquity
		- Diversity
		- Big data
	- Attackers exploit trends of internet for their own advantage.
	- [Mirai DDoS attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mirai_(malware)) on Dyn Server @2016
		- Based on IoT devices connected to the internet.
		- Hacked CCTV cameras to launch DDoS.
	- With more edge devices nowadays, vulnerabilities are amplified.
	- What is a [[Botnet]]?
		- {{embed [[botnet]]}}
	- DDoS is one of the top five attacks nowadays.
	- Many IoT devices enter market nowadays without sufficient security in place
	- Botnets are conventional attack vector nowadays.
	- Conventional vs. Mobile botnets:
		- Diversity | Can exist in manyu forms
		- Quantity | Are multiple
		- Mobility | By nature of devices it infects
	- Cybersecurity mostly works with unstructured data.
	- When attackers want to initiate DDoS, they maximise data use per packet and send more and more packets per second.
	- Detecting botnets autonomously using AutoML.
	- ## Security Intelligence
		- Information relevant to protect against external and internal threats + the tools, processes and policies designed to gather and analyse the information.
		- Must be continuous, adaptive and evolving.
	- ## Defense Lines at Time of Cyberattacks
		- Preventative/Predictive
		- Reactive
		- Tolerance
	- ## Challenges and Approaches
		- | CHALLENGES | APPROACHES |
		  |----------------|----------------|
		  | Diversity of detection models | Protocol diversity |
		  | Parameter calibration | Unbalanced data |
		  | Solution management deployment | Architecture type |
		  | | Data preprocessing |
	- ## Final Considerations
		- Sophistication of attacks
		- DDoS attacks and botnets
		- ...
	- [An Intelligent System for DDoS Attack Prediction Based on Early Warning Signals](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9956892/)
	- What is a [[Zero-Day Attack]]?
		- {{embed [[Zero-Day Attack]]}}
- Next: [[Apr 25th, 2024]]