# Journal
	- [[ChatGPT for Robotics: Design Principles and Model Abilities]]
- # SRTA / Testing Team - Data Collection Discussion
  tag:: #MEETING
  collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
		- Junior Sundar
		- Willian Lunardi
		- Martin Andreoni
		- Jose Segovia
	- **Goal**
		- Follow up on earlier meeting where I wasn't present, about the data collection and accumulation strategy
	- **Agenda**
		- Check how and what data can be collected
		- Identify ways in which SRTA team can coordinate with Testing Team to get the required data sets
	- **Minutes**
		- 9 features of which 2 are being demo'd for Q2 (June)
		- Single drone data collection is all that is required (not swarm)
		- Possible to schedule a workshop to teach drone flight and data collection process
		- Fleet is of non-homogeneous frames
		- Current Testing Team strategy is not standardised or logged properly
		- Some failures can occur in which the sensor cannot detect the failure happening like spontaneous disconnection of FC power supply due to excessive vibrations
		- Brought up the point of `SDLOG_PROFILE` and data collection in FIFO. It seems that it is possible but some discussion needs to take place for this. [Parameter Reference](https://docs.px4.io/v1.12/en/advanced_config/parameter_reference.html#SDLOG_PROFILE)
	- **Action Items**
		- DONE Meetup with Eyad Shaklab in Testing Team to understand data collection procedure
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-04-04 Thu 23:04:14]
		  CLOCK: [2024-04-19 Fri 13:22:26]--[2024-04-22 Mon 16:23:09] =>  75:00:43
		  :END:
			- DONE Compare FIFO vs. High Rate recording: Is it possible to record this consistently?
				- The problem with FIFO is that it is far too high frequency, that not even the bagfiles can keep up with it. So in the end, going for the high-frequency output from the ULOG files should be sufficient.
				- For FIFO, additional processing stages are necessary and it can only record the primary sensor (which you have to choose as well between accelerometer or gyroscope). So if you have multiple accelerometers, you have to manually switch off all except one.
		- DONE Coordinate with Willian and Jose to streamline data collection procedure in Testing Team's work pipeline
- Next: [[Apr 18th, 2024]]