# To-Do
collapsed:: true
	- DONE Update Confluence with Jira updates
	  SCHEDULED: <2024-05-24 Fri 10:00>
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2024-05-24 Fri 09:54:57]--[2024-05-24 Fri 11:17:54] =>  01:22:57
	  :END:
	- DONE Update `neorg`
	  collapsed:: true
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2024-05-24 Fri 09:54:55]--[2024-05-24 Fri 12:30:28] =>  02:35:33
	  :END:
		- Moved a task from [[Q2 June Demo]] --> [[Data Generation Task]]
		- Added a few tasks here and there
- # Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup
  tag:: #MEETING
  collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
		- SRTA-AD
		- Solita
	- **Goals**
		- Updates towards demo
		- State of SRTA module of platform
	- **Agenda**
		- Discuss MLOps progress
		- Tasks left for Demo in Q2
		- Use cases progress
	- **Minutes**
		- Since last Friday, Decision Engine (DE) has been merged into main branch.
		- Samridha model has been uploaded to MLFlow, ROS wrapper is currently in the works.
		- Safe landing use case:
			- Simulation use case with grass and stuff.
			- Challenging because image quality in the sim is crap.
			- Results look very noisy.
			- But good progress has been achieved, most likely that this will be the demo goal.
		- Demo overall status:
			- Sensor anomalies (IP)
			- FMO UI (IP)
			- Decision enginer (IP)
			- Segmentation (OH)
- # RTA Meeting
  tag:: #MEETING
  collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
		- SRTA-AD
	- **Goals**
		- Demo updates and timelines
	- **Agenda**
		- Discuss how much work is left for drone flight
		- Point out blockers and problems
	- **Minutes**
		- Drone nearing flight, but no promises.
		- Documentation is sparse and heavily distributed. They make it upon request basically.
		- Have not been able to allocate time for work in the collab project due to bandwidth being utilised for the flight preparation.
		- Some work needs to be done on the data collection stuff.
	- **Action Items**
		- ((665038b5-88dc-4cf8-a496-9feb389f8c85))
		- ((66503288-71ad-481c-bb6d-2300cdffbaba))
- Next: [[May 24th, 2024]]