# Journal
	- Attended ((667c0065-967b-446b-b793-f63dfa85ae01)).
	- **Following up on:** ((667ea773-b124-413f-a712-c9eb062469e4))
	  collapsed:: true
		- Somehow the data in the drive got deleted.
		- Found it though the Unikie GDrive -> Should have been deleted due to transition.
		- Copied it all out and downloaded it.
		- Created hard backup and shared it with Martin.
		- Now it is all back up.
		- Access restriction in place.
- # `DP-9252` Progress Update and Handover
  tag:: #MEETING
  id:: 667c0065-967b-446b-b793-f63dfa85ae01
  collapsed:: true
	- **Attendees**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Jose Segovia
		- Andres Garrido
		- Junior Sundar
	- **Goal**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Get progress update on the completed tasks.
		- Smooth handover of any unfinished business.
	- **Agenda**
	  collapsed:: true
		- to Andres
			- What is the type of missions being placed in the folders?
			- What tasks have been completed?
			- Draft document methodology to run flight missions with UI.
		- to Jose
			- What is the type of missions being placed in the folders?
			- What tasks need to be handed over?
	- **Minutes**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Clarify this:
		  ```txt
		  100.69.213.28   srtafog-1            tagged-devices linux   offline
		  100.87.142.38   srtafog              tagged-devices linux   offline
		  100.82.216.13   srtareconv3          tagged-devices linux   offline
		  ```
			- The previous names do not get cleared so new one keeps getting added.
		- When connecting to `localhost:3000/missions` the system is stuck in connecting...
			- Laptop needs to be in the same network as the GS.
			- Drone needs to be in the same network as the GS also.
		- Long and high-altitude flights are complete.
			- There is instability in manual movement.
			- Mission from FMO also exhibits same behaviour.
	- **Action Points**
	  collapsed:: true
		- DONE Check GDrive access
		  id:: 667ea773-b124-413f-a712-c9eb062469e4
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-06-28 Fri 16:07:36]--[2024-06-28 Fri 16:07:38] =>  00:00:02
		  :END:
		- DOING Reprint the Saluki-Frame fixture standoff
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-07-01 Mon 14:09:01]
		  :END:
- Next: [[Jun 28th, 2024]]