# To-Do
	- DOING Update JIRA task for the "Demo" timeline
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2024-07-26 Fri 16:07:17]
	  CLOCK: [2024-07-26 Fri 16:07:25]
	  :END:
- # Journal
	- Attended ((66a39061-bc5c-4551-a752-d96ba4e0d387)).
	- ((66a38fe9-9d49-44b0-987e-8d73dd786130)).
- # RTK Server Disconnection/`ntrip-client` Death
  id:: 66a38fe9-9d49-44b0-987e-8d73dd786130
	- There was an error with connection to the RTK server.
	- RTK (real-time kinematic) server provides corrections for the GPS measurements and is positioned locally in TII rooftop.
	- The drone can still perform basic missions, but it will suffer when it comes time to do more elaborate missions as it is now purely relying on GPS to provide its positioning.
	- **According to Pedro Silva:**
	  > I think the problem is that you are looking for the RTK Server on the TII IP range, instead of using the Tailscale IP. If you setup the PMC and drone on the 192.168.xx.xx, it won't find the 172.31.107.xx
- # Solita - SRTA MLOps Syncup
  id:: 66a39061-bc5c-4551-a752-d96ba4e0d387
  tag:: #MEETING
	- **Attendees**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Solita
		- SRTA-AD
	- **Goal**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Synchronising on the state of emergency landing demo.
		- Discussing current issue with the v12.1 release with GPU support and safelanding modules.
	- **Agenda**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Bring up the error in running the SRTA containers in the safelanding release with GPU enabled.
		- Ask what hardware set-up they are working with in Finland.
	- **Minutes**
	  collapsed:: true
		- Testing on hardware is not possible now on Solita until Esko returns.
		- Moamen will try to follow up in the issues posted earlier.
	- **Action Points**
- # Test BKC with SRTA Modules w/ F4F
  tag:: #MEETING
	- **Attendees**
		- Martin Andreoni
		- Willian Lunardi
		- Iraklis Nikolakakos
		- Junior Sundar
		- Jorge Henriques
	- **Goal**
		- Discuss feasibility of F4F being involved in testing.
		- Identifying state of data collection.
	- **Agenda**
	- **Minutes**
	- **Action Points**
- Next: [[Jul 25th, 2024]]