@document.meta
title: ROS 2 
description: 
authors: juniorsundar
categories: 
created: 2024-01-28T16:33:02+0400
updated: 2024-02-01T22:12:46+0400
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Installation (Humble Hawksbill)

  *NOTE:* This is being attempted in the Ubuntu 22.04 operating system.

* Set Locale

  Make sure there is a locale which supports UTF-8. If in a minimal environment
  (such as a docker container), the locale may be something minimal like POSIX.
  Test with the following settings.

  @code bash
  locale  # check for UTF-8

  sudo apt update && sudo apt install locales
  sudo locale-gen en_US en_US.UTF-8
  sudo update-locale LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 LANG=en_US.UTF-8
  export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

  locale  # verify settings
  @end

** Set up Sources

   Add ROS 2 `apt` repository to the system. First ensure that Ubuntu Universe
   repository is enabled.

   @code bash
   sudo apt install software-properties-common
   sudo add-apt-repository universe
   @end

   Add ROS 2 GPG keys.

   @code bash
   sudo apt update && sudo apt install curl -y
   sudo curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros/rosdistro/master/ros.key -o /usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg
   @end

   Add the repository to sources list.

   @code bash
   echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg] http://packages.ros.org/ros2/ubuntu $(. /etc/os-release && echo $UBUNTU_CODENAME) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros2.list > /dev/null
   @end

** Install ROS 2 Packages

   Update repository and existing packages first.

   @code bash
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt upgrade
   @end

   For the Desktop Install (Recommended) which includes ROS, RViz, demos,
   tutorials.

   @code bash
   sudo apt install ros-humble-desktop
   sudo apt install ros-dev-tools
   @end

   > For on the ROS-Base Install (Bare Bones) which contains Communication libraries, message packages, command line tools. No GUI tools.
   > 
   > @code bash
   > sudo apt install ros-humble-ros-base
   > sudo apt install ros-dev-tools
   > @end

** Sourcing the Environment

   Referring to the previous section on ROS {:$/technical/ros/ros:** Packages}[packages], we can permanently
   source the ROS installation by running:

   @code bash
   echo "source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash" >> .bashrc
   @end

* Distributed System

  DDS (Data Distribution Service) plays a crucial role in ROS (Robot Operating
  System), especially in ROS 2. It acts as the underlying connectivity
  framework that facilitates communication between different parts of a
  ROS-based system.

  ~ *Middleware Layer* - DDS is used as the default middleware. This means that
    DDS is responsible for the efficient and reliable exchange of information
    between different nodes (components) of a ROS 2 system. It's a layer that
    sits between the ROS application layer and the network, managing data
    exchange and communication.
  ~ *Vendor Agnosticism* - Is designed to be DDS vendor-agnostic. This means it
    can work with different DDS implementations, such as eProsima's Fast DDS,
    RTI’s Connext DDS, Eclipse Cyclone DDS, and GurumNetworks GurumDDS. This
    flexibility allows users to choose a DDS implementation that best fits
    their specific requirements.
  ~ *Key Functions Provided by DDS* - DDS provides several essential services
    in ROS 2, including discovery (finding and connecting to other nodes in the
    network), message serialization (converting data to a format suitable for
    transmission), and publish-subscribe transport (managing how messages are
    sent and received).
  ~ *Enhanced Features* - Brings enhanced features compared to ROS 1, such as
    distributed discovery (eliminating the need for a central master for node
    discovery), more granular quality of service settings, and potentially more
    efficient intra-process communication through shared memory.

  ===
___

  {:$/technical/ros/ros:}[< return] - {:$/index:}[index]
